Meeting Minutes
===

## Info

:date: **Date:** 18 January 2024

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Fady Salama
- Daniel Peintner
- Jürgen Pannosch
- Dimitrios Spatharakis
- Amel Maouchi
- Sergio Infante
- Timoteus Ruotsalainen
- Julia Robles
- Daniel Peintner
- Samuele Burattini
- Fady Mettias
- Leonardo Militano
- Ganesh Ramanathan
- York Schmidtke
- Tatiana Mangels
- Thomas Jäckle
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Lorenzo Gigli
- Jan Romann
- Toffetti Carughi Giovanni
- Marco Montanari

### :scroll: Agenda

- News from the CG
- Introduction of the Speaker
- Presentation
- Q&A
- Discussion on Digital Twins

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Daniel

:computer: **Intro Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14iYRD-cksx2dKQT0-KlZdSo6SsottSJDGvcfPDj-PzE/edit?usp=sharing

## Introduction

Cristiano Aguzzi: Welcome to first meetup in 2024

Cristiano Aguzzi: Co-Chair of CG Ege and Cristiano.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Publish minutes after the call.

Cristiano Aguzzi: News from us. Worked on tutorial. Please provide feedback (see link-TODO). Please reach out to use if you have questions etc.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Please join the WoT CG also.

### Speaker Introduction

Cristiano Aguzzi: Ege Korkan, Research Scientist

Cristiano Aguzzi: Fady Salama Ph.D candidate at TUM

## Presentation

Ege Korkan: Starting PowerPoint slides. We will talk about digital twins for Robots. Joint work between Siemens and TUM.

Ege Korkan: Device Connectivity. Control device/asset. We start seeing "virtual" devices/asset.

Ege Korkan: Today we look into simulation software. Nowadays called digital twins. Predict behavior or outcome of real world or physical system.

Ege Korkan: Typical steps. 1. model a system. 2. run simulation, 3. Compare with real world

Ege Korkan: We have seen 2 types of Digital Twins (DTs). Real-time or much slower than real time.

Ege Korkan: Today we will focus on real time. Look at CoppeliaSIM. Commercial software.

Ege Korkan: We get Thing Models from the manufacturer.

Ege Korkan: There is Universal Robot Description Format (URDF). XML file. Describes robots. Can describe geometry.

Ege Korkan: We build WobWoT. Will show a demo. We see real time video stream of lab setup in TU Munich and digital twin on my laptop.

Ege Korkan: Start thing interfacing with the environment. Simulation and real device behave the same. Speed might not be exactly the same. Will show code as well. It is open source.

Ege Korkan: Rather "boring" code. Based on TD we can call the same action like "gripOpen" to both virtual and real.

Ege Korkan: The TDs differ in domain names URLs but are the same.

Fady Salama: Explaining how it is working behind the scene

Fady Salama: Idea was to start with URDF only. Most of the work/simulation etc works with minimal human intervention. Generate workspace. Enhance TD and then we have a Wot Server one can interact with.

Fady Salama: Let's look at how developers can use this simulation.

1. Get the TM (from the manufacturer).
2. get the URDF (from the manufacturer).
3. Reuse a simulation software (here Coppelia Sim)
4. Bridge the TM to the simulation logic via code
5. Start the program

Fady Salama: No development effort needed for 1,2,3 and 5

Fady Salama: ThingModel describe interaction handling which can influence simulation.

Fady Salama: Based on TM we can instantiate server/thing.

Fady Salama: Control logic interacts with server and influences indirectly simulation instance (scene).

Fady Salama: We use node-wot which makes it simple to create server abstracting away protocol.

Fady Salama: Simulation software can change. We use Coppelia Sim, via WebSocket.

Fady Salama: Whole framework is open source. Contributions are welcome.

Ege Korkan: Showing ConveyorBelt.ts

Fady Salama: We start with conveyor belt TM. We produce a WoT thing and can influence the speed of the belt.

Fady Salama: Work published as paper at WF-IoT 23

Ege Korkan: Side contribution: making robots...

Ege Korkan: Robots are very special. We look at the scene and calculate the available workspace with different movements. Available workspace can be understood by advanced consumer.

Ege Korkan: Dry run or simulation in the loop. Same affordances/logic. Not to change much.

Ege Korkan: We can add connectivity to your simulation.

Ege Korkan: Hopefully you get inspired.

Ege Korkan: One more thing. A more complicated demo. We try to move cubes. Issue with a real device. 2nd try works.

## Q&A

Samuele Burattini: Phd student working on digital things. University of Bologna. Simulation and real device are not sharing any data, correct?

Ege and Fady Salama: Correct. One can sync real world with simulation or vice-versa. It is about another platform to do all programming and tests. Not breaking another thing. Real robot not aware of virtual one.

Samuele Burattini: Wonder about "network connection" you mentioned.

Ege Korkan: Code uses WebSocket, but it is not node-wot in this case.

Amel Maouchi: I am software engineer. Worked on graphical editor that enables to control devices. I want to do that in industrial word. Like bottling machine?

Ege Korkan: If machine provides interfaces like OPC-UA you can write a TD. Without interfaces we cannot do anything. We need "some" protocol like Modbus etc..

Amel Maouchi: Only digital twin linked to my software.

Ege Korkan: Digital twin needs to have network interface.

Timoteus Ruotsalainen: Programmer working in audio-visual industry. Was tasked  to make control system. Key issue was devive integration. Used WoT to abstract control system. Have now own company focusing on digital twin. Finland pushes companies to digital things in smart buildings.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Thanks!

Cristiano Aguzzi: Maybe Timoteus you can share some insights in a follow-up meetup.

Timoteus Ruotsalainen: NDA issues, but high level overview might be possible.

Ege Korkan: BTW there is a Nordic chapter group you might be interested in. More Sweden than Finland I think, but still might be of interest.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Simulation happening via Websocket. Possible to model via TD?

Fady Salama: I don't think in this case. We are sending Lua scripts. 100 functions... Websocket used as a tunnel.

## Open Discussions

Samuele Burattini: 2 TDs for simulated and real thing. Formal way of linking them somehow. Interesting for the group?

Ege Korkan: link rel=alternate could be an alternative

Fady Salama: We use web technology not meant for web devices. There are more examples... not just links

Cristiano Aguzzi: JSON schema not enough?

Fady Salama: Correct. You cannot fully describe it... (you need mathematical equations. e.g. a half donut without a hole in the middle)

Cristiano Aguzzi: Complex patterns can be built on top. If it can be more formalized we could look into it in the working group

Timoteus Ruotsalainen: Two things. Industry domain knowledge needed, WoT abstracts it away. Is there work on securiyt side? Access control etc.

Cristiano Aguzzi: There is security work in place. There are different security schemes. With TD.next we seem to look more in security schemes based on protocol.

Timoteus Ruotsalainen: security is very important for enterprises.

Samuele Burattini: We tried to work with another simulator called AnyLogic. It was/is still very hard. No nice interface.

Ege Korkan: Many simulators claim that they have an API but in the end it is just a programming API

Fady Salama: Used to have another simulation about digital twin in buildings with heater, air-conditioning etc

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

## :exclamation: Action Items

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

## Presentation Summary
