# Meeting Minutes

## Info

:date: **Date:** 17 July 2025

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Dimitrios Spatharakis
- Anastasios Zafeiropoulos
- Max Albin Thoma
- Nikos Filinis
- Piotr Sowiński
- Giannis Dimolitsas
- Ted Thibodeau Jr
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Victor Lu
- Marco Jahn
- Vignesh V
- Charles Steinmetz
- Marie-Claire Forgue
- Symeon Papavassiliou
- Leonhard Esterbauer
- Dave Raggett
- Dawood
- Nikos Fryganiotis
- Jonathan
- Christina Androna
- Daniel Peintner
- Oliver Mascarenhas
- Kirill Dorofeev
- Karl-Heinz Weber

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cris

----

## Minutes

### Introduction

Ege: Welcome Everyone! we are at Meetup 27th! All slide are public
Ege: you can find us in different places on the web

### News

Ege: We don't have any major event planned, other than TPAC and Office hours.

Ege: we are also publishing two new tutorial videos, there are more underway.

Ege: TPAC will be held in Kobe Japan. We have a meeting planned for 14th of november. Let us know if you want to participate.

Ege: if you want to present in this kind of events (like this meetup) let us know.

### Meetup Presentation

Ege: Today with us we have Dimitrios and Nikos from National Technical University of Athens. Dimitrios is very active in different EU projects around IoT and cyber-physical systems. Todays, they will present Nephele project and how it can help build iot applications with IoT virtualization and edge computing.

Dimitrios: Thank you for give us the opportunity to present Nephele project. Nephele project will be finalized in September, we are trying to integrate the iot part in the cloud orchestration platform.

Dimitrios: NETMODE lab is focused in 5G/6G technologies and it is involved in various EU and national projects.

Dimitrios: in nephele we pinpointed two main challenges, iot converge and integrated meta-orchestration. We are trying to build synergies between edge and the cloud.

Dimitrios: We build on top of a well-known python implementation of the Web of Things and extended it with additional functionalities to enable the orchestration across edge and cloud.

Dimitrios: In Nephele we have two main concepts: Virtual Object (VO) and Composite Virtual Object(cVO). VOs are entry points of the Nephele ecosystem and cVO are compositions of those VO. We tried to build an active community where we asked to build application graphs which consists in a set of reusable VOs and cVOs

Dimitrios: VOs are usually deployed on edge servers.

> Dimitrios show an example of a complex application graph build in Nephele

Dimitrios: You can see that there are different communication schemes. This is just an example. The VO stack architecture has three layers. The first one is the Physical Convergence Layer. The second layer is the Backend Logic Layer. There we have the "intelligence" level of a VO. In here you can find bindings to databases for example. Finally, in the Edge/Cloud convergence layer we want to solve issues about scaling and monitoring.

Dimitrios: VOs and cVOs are described by a document which allows you to deploy them in orchestration platforms like Kubernetes.

Dimitrios: in WoT-py we added new protocols binding, security mechanisms, periodic functions and binding to influxDb.

Dimitrios: for example we included Zenoh protocol, used in robotic applications.

Dimitrios: We also added RTSP server (as a sidecar) for video streams and proxy mode.

Dimitrios: Another additions was to implement OpenID and Verifiable Credentials for access control to VOs and cVO.

Dimitrios: We were also able to properly describe a proxy pattern between VOs.

Dimitrios: We also experimented with SDN for example we implemented time sensitive networking over NETCONF.

Dimitrios: Thanks to the modularity of VOs and cVOs we also successfully develop Digital Twins.

Dimitrios: We submitted research work in the context of the internet of robotic things. We used VOs in an AI-assisted mechanism to control the task of offloading in an Edge AI scenario.

Dimitrios: Finally, we are defined a roadmap. Main focus in keeping it alive and following the development of the standards or the nodejs implementation. The VO stack could be published under Eclipse ThingWeb or as a standalone project.

Dimitrios: Thank you WoT community for the continuos interactions during this years.

> Nikos is taking over showing a video and documentation

Nikos: the video shows an example of using influxdb and VO and how the stack stores property values in it.

Nikos: We developed also a web based dashboard and control application.

### Discussion

Ege: In the last part you mentioned this hazard detection, is this logic happening in the cVOs or outside the stack.

Nikos: there we used cVOs that listen to events or conditions and act some specific code if a condition arise.

Leonhard: what standard or format do you use for defining VOs?

Nikos: we have yaml file with a specific format.

Ege: Zenoh protocol seems interesting, but it is more like a single implementation rather than a standard. Do you think is better then MQTT or what was your experience.

Nikos: we mostly had the requirement from one participant that couldn't use MQTT for his use case (robotic use case)

Dimitrios: Zenoh performance it is even faster than MQTT especially for large payload. Even if MQTT is more used.

Ege: was just used with ROS?

Dimitrios: in our case yes.

Ege: you showed us different domains but everything was described with TD, there were some drawbacks by using Thing Description as a single vocabulary or model for describing this use cases?

Anastasios: in DT it is important to merge different sources.

Cris: Did you need to manage long running actions or queue of actions? Also did you need to map the data, like influxdb data to the properties?

Anastasios: We have logic to handle complex interactions with state and action request. For example, can't reboot  a device if somebody is asking data.

Nikos: We have a mechanism to handle queue of actions but the Thing Description did not reflect this behavior.

Ege: did you see any missing feature in the Web of Things?

Nikos: there is no support for proxies, you can't tell if you are interacting with the proxy or with the real thing.

Ege: we have similar thing, like sometimes people describe a room with a Thing Description but it is a collection of sensors and there is no "Room" device.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

- there is no support for proxies, you can't tell if you are interacting with the proxy or with the real thing.

- We have a mechanism to handle queue of actions but the Thing Description did not reflect this behavior.
