# Meeting Minutes

:date: **Date:** 14 March 2025

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Robert Winkler
- CodingNinja
- Samuele Marro
- DB
- daniel o
- Rem Collier
- Jochen Hiller
- Katharine Beaumont
- Denis
- Andrei Olaru
- Thomas Jaeckle
- Christian Glomb
- Andrei Ciortea
- Jonathan Rau
- Vignesh V
- Maud Stiernet
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Roman Binkert
- Henning Sudbrock
- Joshua Cornejo
- Anastasiya Danilenka
- L. Gustavo Nardin
- Andrea Giulianelli
- Tomoaki Mizushima
- Jasbir Singh
- Kai Kreuzer
- Ben Francis
- Nikita
- Jean-Paul Calbimonte
- A43581519
- Sam
- Stephen Cranefield
- Tatiana
- Daniel Peintner
- Alexandru Sorici
- Terry Payne
- Julian Padget
- Stefan Bußweiler
- Raul
- Patrick
- Lorenzo Gigli
- Gianluca Aguzzi
- Alessandro Giugno

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cris

----

### Introduction

- Ege: welcome everyone! This is a joint call between WoT, WebAgents and Web Thing Protocol CG
- Ege: Working at siemens and co-lead of CG group
- Cris: Work in standards and in a company called Archeion.
- Andrei: Web agents CG
- Rem: Professor working with multi agents system, involved in hypermedia multi agents systems
- Ben: Founder of Krellian, Web Thing Protocol CG would ask anyone who is interested in the development of the protocol to join the group.

### News

Ege:two weeks from now we will host a new meetup about HiveOT

Ege: More are planned

Ege: if you anything to present let us know!

Andrei: Quick news from us, we are organizing a workshop. If you have research or innovation projects please reach out.

Ben: We have started writing the specification of Web Thing Protocol and there is a strawman proposal (watch out is getting out of date).

Ege: Joining the groups is free, you can join using the button.

### Meetup Presentation

Ege: Today we have Robert Winkler, one of the drivers of the LMOS project. He is focused on Internet of Things and conversational AI. Solution architect by day and a gamer by night.

Robert: We will talk about LMOS at Eclipse as well as how we used WoT in that system.

Robert: At DT, we are using GEnAi to solve sales and services. We will soon be integrating voice into the system. That solution is based on a LLM. You can augment LLMs with tools, usually functions to performing actions in the digital/physical world. The agent can also access short and long term memory.

Robert: Today's focus is more about the process we went trough when building such a system and where WoT played a crucial role.

Robert: We split the problem over different agents to improve performance (one agent was performing poorly).

Robert: Now we don't allow communication between agents; main challenge is to avoid loops. At DT, we are switching from API to agents. Soon we'll have an internet of agents, not API calls.

Robert: But then new challenges are unlocked: discovery, protocol, security, interoperability, group, metadata, versioning. A lot of problems that need to be solved.

Robert: At Eclipse LMOS, we are building on top of existing solutions to solve the challenges above. We use Discovery Specification, Web Thing protocol, and Security.

Robert: When we implement an agent, we describe it using a Thing Description. From the consumer prospective, we can talk with the agent with different protocols. Agents can perform long running tasks. We need messaging protocols. We can use Websockets and/or HTTP from some agents. Agents (as well as tools which are described by TDs) can register themselves to a directory.

Robert: LMOS is built around JVM (`kotlin`) but soon we will have Python runtime to use the well-know AI tooling ecosystem.

Robert: You can plug and play protocols. You can use DIDs for identifying tools and/or agents. With the DID, you can discovery TDs.

Robert: We developed a DSL for developing agents which use our runtime for WoT written in Kotlin.

Robert: The TD is composed of Agent Metadata, Agent API (affordances: Events, Actions, Properties), and Agent Capabilities.

Robert: From security, we are using WoT security schemas. At DT, we use a combination M-to-M token and User token.

Robert: In spring boot, you can write an agent using annotations. As dev, I don't care about the protocol. The TD is generated by the protocol. It's a code-first framework.

Robert: We are using Thingweb for runtime and Webthings for gateway control. I converted the things in the testing Webthings gateway to Agent Tools. I can ask questions and see the result of the actions.

> Shows a demo

Robert: I just used the description and I was able to create a scenario. We open-sourced the whole LMOS platform.

Robert: We defined Capabilities to augment Agent descriptions in TD. Operators can fetch Agent Capabilities. We have built a complex CI/CD flow specific for agents. We support canary deployments.

Robert: We defined the concept of channels to route the right query to the right agent. The entrypoint is Supervisor Agent that talks with LMOS operator which is capable of creating channel information.

> Shows a demo

Robert: If you don't have an agent capable of handling a request or query, the system responds accordingly, but you can install it later.

Robert: Additionally, the system automatically provides different context information: user and system.

Robert: The whole project is a WIP. Let's collaborate to make it real!

### Discussion

Ege: Thank you for the presentation and thank you for making it open source.

Samuele: Are the use cases part of the standard or custom for agents?

Robert: They are not standard. They are made for Arc (Agent DSL).

Samuele: It reminded me of MCP for prompts.

Ben: Really cool project, great to see use of Web Thing protocol. I'm curious about agents interacting with devices using TDs. The interesting part is Agents talking with each other, in particular using natural language. I show a demo using a particular audio protocol (tones instead of natural language).

Robert: Quite interesting demo, we are looking into M-to-M too. There might be more performant protocols than audio. The protocol negotiation is very important. We can re-use existing solutions, and I like the meta idea of WoT. Protocol and media type negotiation is very interesting. P2P for WoT is also interesting. There is a new agency formed to build a new protocol... I fear that we are reinventing the wheel. It's important that we collaborate and build something together.

Samuele: We worked on context switching <https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11905>

Sam: Is there some platform to publish agents? Like pip or npm?

Robert: In MCP, there are multiple registries. We will build something similar on top of WoT. We can start working on it in DT, and later make it public. Another interesting point is micro-transactions between agents.

Jonathan: How do you know which is the best agent when getting a query?

Robert: It is challenging.

Jonathan: Could we end up having something similar to SEO?

Robert: That's good point. It might be a possible scenario.

Jonathan: Does it make sense to use metadata to pick the right agent?

Rem: Interesting point of inter-agent communication.

Robert: In Matter, they publish metadata to a blockchain.

Cris: How can I choose an agent?

Robert: Apps will die, and you can install agents in your systems.

Cris: Then you can choose the right one.

Robert: Yeah, and then you can use Bitcoin to pay for usage.

Sam: Getting new packages in this platform is not necessary to sign; we can do it later.

Robert: Yes, I totally agree. At the beginning, MCP didn't even have security.

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

## :exclamation: Action Items

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks
