Meeting Minutes

## Info

:date: **Date:** 14 February 2024

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Till Langen
- Jürgen Pannosch
- Leonhard Esterbauer
- Jochen Hiller
- Christian Glomb
- Vignesh V
- Josh Cohen
- Rachid Saber
- Tatiana Mangels
- Dimitrov
- Rene Dorsch
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Daniel Peintner
- Thomas Jaeckle
- Stefan Perras
- Farshid Tavakolizadeh
- Richard Bowman
- Richard Barkoczy
- Alexander Schmidt
- Samuele Burattini
- MARCO PICONE
- Luca Barbato
- Jan Romann
- Sebastian Kaebisch

### :scroll: Agenda

- News from the CG
- Introduction of the Speaker
- Presentation
- Q&A
- Discussion

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege

:computer: **Intro Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14jMoUwxGq2J_smzZTjwcXpHN2fIrKAGCczmVx74X3FU/edit?usp=sharing

## Meetup

### Introduction

Ege: Welcome 15th meeting! We will have a short news section and then we are going to give the floor to Till presentatio about matter.

### News

Ege: New meetups planned scheduled for March 28, from a previous attender.

Ege: Feel free to propose a theme for a next Meetup. Just ping us on discord.

#### Speaker Introduction

Ege: Since 2020, Till is working as a part of the MagentaZuhause app team in Deutsche Telekom. Initially, he has worked with Thread and then with Matter. After working on a proof of concept for the integration in the MagentaZuhause architecture, he realized that an abstraction from Matter to Web of Things would make the solution more resource efficient and lightweight. 

### Presentation

Till: Dual student at Deutsche Telekom.

Till: Shows agenda

#### Matter Intro

Till: We use WoT in the cloud and have the  integrations in the gateway.

Till: The source code is on Github and standardized by CSA. It is local networks and uses IPv6.

Till: Matter uses known networking layer protocols.

Till: a device can have multiple nodes.

Till: a node then has multiple endpoints.

Till: each endpoints has clusters, can be server or client and has device type has requirements.

Till: Clusters are checked in the certification process.

Till: the spec says that a device type must implement these clusters.

Till: A special one is the root node. It has basic information and general commissioning. Importantly it contains the list of all endpoints.

##### Example

Till: on off light bulb has root node and then an on off node

##### Composition

Till: You can create compositions by linking via semantic tags. A device that has refrigeration and freezer function.

##### Bridging

Till: You can put endpoints of non matter devices

##### Security

Till: Defines access rights like read write and invoke and each has levels of attributes.

#### WoT Concept

Till: each endpoint is a TD. It separates the functionality.

Till: Relations can be abstracted with the links of the TD spec.

Till: But matter relationships are unilateral.

Till: I have done a context extension and used matter provided ontology

Till: I had to add an Aggregator rel type.

Till: Collection and item from TD spec works really well here.

Till: For security, I have thought of repurposing the oauth2 since it has the nice scopes concept.

Till: I have mapped some affordance types. Attributes are properties, commands actions, events events.

Till: events are a bit harder.

Till: We can extend the XML provided by matter

##### Matter Protocol Binding

Till: What do we need? Cluster name, affordance or characteristic name, node id, endpoint id. These I have understood from the CLI library.

Till: This helps with the uri scheme definition

##### Thing Models

Till: We can have a library of thing models since there are a lot of reusable stuff.

#### Implementation

Till: I have used node-wot. Thanks for answering the questions on Discord.

Till: I have also done discovery. Then there is a RESTful interface. It is on top of Telekom Matter Controller.

Till: Shows the video.

### Q&A

Farshid: How did you go with the implementation?

Till: On top of Telekom Matter Controller. I am not using the chip tool.

Robert Winkler: Based on some open source tools but we have done some stuff ourselves. We use the chip C sdk.

Jochen: Yes we use the Matter SDK and a rest interface on top of it.

Vignesh: Link for implementation?

Till: https://github.com/LangenT/4LOM

Ege: Why not one TD?

Till: Naming collisions but it can be done.

Farshid: How about commissioning? Thread and WiFi would differ in commissioning. Do you plan to tackle this?

Till: Not really. They will be in the root node.

Vignesh: The matter implementation itself is not open source?

Till: No it is not.

Vignesh: What language?

Jochen: C++ provided by the CSA.

Ege: This protocol binding can be a spec?

Till: I do not have contacts

Jochen: Is there a liaison?

Ege: sadly not but it is a good idea.

Sebastian Käbisch: The wish is there. We can present in the main call. Maybe you can present it to the matter?

Till: We can find the correct subteam, tiger team to contact.

Rachid: Hi I am from Deutsche Telekom. There is a tiger team about making matter available for internet usage. That can be a good starting point. I will send it to you.

Ege: The library is available somewhere?

Till: In the models folder in the link above.

Robert: We currently use Eclipse Smart home in the gateway and this was just a PoC.

Juergen: Is the thesis available online?

Till: Not yet but I can post in the discord server.

Ege: Matter ontology for links. Is it public as well? Does it resolve to triples nicely?

Till: Only XML usage sadly...

Ege: What are the next steps?

Till: Not much from my side.

Rachid: We need to evaluate it further on our side.

Vignesh: Any usage outside of smart home?

Till: It is not limited to it.

Robert: It can run anywhere actually

Till: We could abstract everything to WoT.

Ege: Where can you use WoT more in Matter?

Till: Going out of the spec with device types. They cannot describe everything, even when they add more types.

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

## :exclamation: Action Items

- Contacting Matter standardization to establish exchange and ideally liaison via WG.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

- The scope feature of oauth2 is actually usable in other places.
- There is a protocol binding proposal

## Presentation Summary

