Meeting Minutes

## Info

:date: **Date:** 14 February 2024

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Henk (HiveOT)
- SALVADOR GONZALEZ GERPE
- Michael Mccool
- Kerem Coban
- Minyong Li
- Marco Picone
- Juan Agustin Martinez
- Franziska Rudolph
- Mahda Noura
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Marcel Wagner
- Daniel Peintner
- Hossein Rimaz
- ANDREA JESUS CIMMINO ARRIAGA

### :scroll: Agenda

- News from the CG
- Introduction of the Speaker
- Presentation
- Q&A
- Discussion

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cris

:computer: **Intro Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fGmg6lW4JH00OdodfsvvMqcA7O90u57ZHE7REEWt2oY/edit?usp=sharing

:::

### Introduction

Ege: Welcome 16th meeting! We will have a short news section and then we are going to give the floor to Salvador presentation.

### News

Ege: New meetups planned scheduled for May 16.

Ege: Feel free to propose a theme for a next Meetup. Just ping us on discord.

Ege: Next one will be next week and is going to be about Solid and Web of Things

Ege: Then we'll one one meetup with people from the University of Bologna. We are waiting for more details.

Ege: if you want to join CG, it's free and does not require any particular requirement.

#### Speaker Introduction

Ege: Salvador is a researcher in Artificial Intelligence with extensive knowledge focused on the semantic characterization of Digital Twins.
Graduated in computer engineering with a master's degree in artificial intelligence. Currently, working on a PhD in Artificial Intelligence, with the main focus on semantic characterization and interoperability between different Digital Twins.

### Presentation

Salvador: I work together with Andrea Cimmino and Raul Garcia-Castro.

Salvador: The work was done inside the Cogito european project.

Salvador: A digital twin is a digital representation of a physical entity. Information flows bi-directionally between the digital and physical worlds.

Salvador: in the digital world we have models data and services.

Salvador: whereas in the real world we have source of data. In total we have a 5 dimension architecture.

Salvador: in the Cogito project we have real world entities coming from three pilots. We also have connected data and services.

Salvador: We made an ontology that extends the WoT ontology for the Cogito application use case. The ontology allows to discover services across different Digital Twin dimensions, promotes data interoperability between different actors. 

Salvador: in practice we can represent digital twin connections and data with WoT ontology.

> Salvador presenting a schema of the ontology

Salvador: to use the ontology you can add the context.json file to your Thing Descriptions

Salvador: focusing on the Entity dimension, we can add this information to a thing description. For example a wall can be identified by an id.

Salvador: the entity is then further described by its own description and ontology terms.

Salvador: The data can be stored inside a knowledge graph.

Salvador: The interaction dimension is described thanks to the Thing Description affordances concept.

Salvador: Finally, the connection dimension, to describe relations with other entities.

> Salvador shows a json ld example of a connection between a service and the provider

Salvador: It was challenging to use WoT in Cogito, for example we missed the terms to express all the five dimensions of a digital twin.

Salvador: notice that the ontology can be used also in other domains.

Salvador: an extension could focus on how to combine different digital twins. In other words, how can I create an ecosystem of different actors.

### Q&A

Marco: Is there a way for an external application to understand the associated physical object.

Salvador: currently we are using a knowledge graph, where you can find all the information about the physical object. But we can represent it externally.

Marco: if I look at the Digital Description can we go back to the physical representation. For example, how can the application can understand if the TD is from the right physical entity?

Salvador: you are looking at the linked entity.

HiveIoT: I work with DT too. In the physical world you have sensor and actuators. DT can be an exposure of those functionalities to the digital world. Are you seeing the physical world as static or dynamic (i.e. something you can interact with)

Salvador: If you can interact with different entities you have to understand the aggregation context, but that's a future challenge.

Henk: good point, I encounter this problem too but I've never really tackled. How do you work with TDs that explain aggregates?

Ege: we discussed about this a couple of times in the WG. Valid points.

Ege: Can you give examples of knowledge that we can extract from this modeling? how would you link something in a CAD file or not semantic models

Salvador: we are simply links to other type of files.

Ege: In a complex scenario links you probably need something more than a link (e.g. parsers or understanding of the content of the file)

Agustin Martizen (Agu): From argentina, I worked with ontologies form 10 years. Is there any w3c standard that propose this digital twin dimensions?

Salvador: no

Agustin Martizen (Agu): I want to try to do what is OPC UA is doing with WoT. How can I integrate the information about data generated with WoT.

Salvador: in practice we are also building a metadata knowledge graph for the digital twin.

Marco: about standardization of Digital Twins you can have a look at ETSI.

Cristiano: if you have the connection dimension what stops you to use that to describe the aggregation between DTs?

Salvador: there are some components that could have inner connections and public connections. It's tricky to describe those with the current model.  

Marco: we should avoid to build another heterogenous layer on top of IoT. That would create problems.

Henk: there is a vocabulary for digital twin space?

Salvador: not really

Ege: Is there anything that the standardization can do in the short period?

Ege: we can do something for representing connections between DT dimensions. For example focusing on the links.

Cristiano: we can try to power up the link section, I agree.

> Salvador showing a concrete example of links

Ege: why do you have "properties" field and you didn't put everything in links ? why everything is statically described

Mahda: why don't you used SSN ontology to describe different data sources to it.

Salvador: we were focusing on HOW to access the data instead of describing the data. Sometimes the connections between different systems are hard to describe using SAREF or SSN.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

- Links and relationship need more expressiveness
