Meeting Minutes
===

:::info

:date: **Date:** 16 October 2025

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Erich Barnstedt
- Abiodun Busari
- Yagiz
- Piotr Sowiński
- Danilenka Anastasiya
- Muhammad Ashfaq
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Tomoaki Mizushima
- Kerem Coban
- Wolfram
- Jens Henninger
- dsr
- Niko D’Agostino
- Manuel Weber
- Henk
- Prerna Juhlin
- Wouter Bunthof
- Gregor Schuetz
- Jens Henninger
- Karl Ledermann
- Alexander Schmidt
- Sebastian Kaebisch
- York Schmidtke
- Matthias Meier
- Yusuf Koç
- Mehmet Barış Yaman
- Daniel Peintner
- Klaus Hartke

### :scroll: Agenda

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege

----

### Introduction

Ege: Welcome Everyone! we are at Meetup 29th! All slide are public
Ege: you can find us in different places on the web

### News

Ege: New tutorials, new event in Japan.

### Meetup Presentation

Ege: So with us here today is first of all Erich Barnstedt who is at Microsoft and he has started in the Windows team and now when I later on has joined the Azure team and worked in automotive and manufacturing verticals and he has founded the Windows and and Azure.
Azure Industrial IT teams and if you are aware of any industrial IT product from Microsoft, you have probably seen his name already and he's also very involved recently in industrial standards and their usage in Microsoft and also as well the commitments to the open source as a Senior Director and Architect at the Corporate Standards Group at Microsoft. So welcome Erich.

Ege: On the other, on the other hand, we have Sebastian Kaebisch, who is a principal key expert at Siemens Munich, Germany, and he's basically working on the efficient realization and usage of standardized Internet and web technologies.
In the broad industrial IoT domain.
And you probably see his name in different places in strategic initiatives, research or development topics with Siemens business units, but also outside in industrial and building automation domains. He is also of course the co-chair of the WoT working group and also the UA binding at the OPC founding.
Yeah. And with this, we will start the presentation. And yeah, the topic is obviously and web of things. So Erich and Sebastian, you can take the floor.

Erich: OK. Thank you so much. So I'm going to focus my presentation on basically the mapping from Web of Things to OPC UA, while Sebastian's going to focus on the mapping from OPC UA to Web of Things.

So you already heard where I work. I'm also the chair of the Cloud initiative inside the OPC Foundation. And what you're seeing here today is a big part of this cloud initiative, which is basically bundling all cloud related technologies.
At the OPC Foundation.
So what we hear from.
Members of the OPC Foundation all the time is that their biggest challenge is vendor lock in and obviously that can come in various different shapes and sizes. So usually you're forced to use a specific SDK or interface communication protocol or data model.
But you can also be locked into a specific software platform or have to buy specific hardware. So the question is how do we avoid vendor lock in? Well, for that we need four things. We need a.
Standardized interface, a standardized data format, a standardized data model, and standardized semantics. So I have this analogy here. I'm not sure if it works for you, but those four things is what?
Really makes an interoperable solution that doesn't lock you in to a proprietary ecosystem. So OPCOA as the industrial interoperability standard has this interoperability at its heart.
So for example, if you buy a modern industrial robot, which most likely will have OPC way built in.
You will see that the interface to that robot is what OPC UA calls client server technology. It's the interface. The data format would be a binary format that the OPC UA standard, which is incidentally an IEC standard.
Um.
Defines. And then there's also an OPC UA information model. It's actually very powerful, the OPC UA modeling language. And then finally there is specific semantics covered in so-called companion specifications to the OPC UA standard, and there's one for robotics.
So if you have such a robot, you're lucky because you're completely agnostic and can use this robot without being locked in to the ecosystem of the robot manufacturer. But not every device that people use in industrial environments.
Are robots. So what happens, for example, if it's a smaller device like a Siemens energy meter? Well, in that case, more than likely you will be faced with a simpler interface like Modbus, and then you're really stuck.
Right, because the data format, the data model and semantics, you will probably be handed in the form of a PDF document that comes with the device, with the asset, and then you need to read that PDF.
To understand how to extract the data from it.
So this is where weber things can help because weber things actually covers that gap, right? So weber things uses, as you know, Jason LD data format. The data model is described in a so-called thing description and then the semantics.
For example, for accessing the modbus interface and describing exactly which modbus register you know corresponds to which tag that the asset has is covered in the so-called protocol binding. So with a thing description.
Which is machine readable.
You are again not locked in to a proprietary ecosystem, but the question is how do you create that thing description? I mean, ideally it's provided by the asset vendor, right? So in fact, Siemens have provided I think description for the central pack range on GitHub.
But for all these other devices that don't have OPC way built in, what do you do right? So a lot of manufacturers want to map.
Every asset to a common interface, for example OPC UA. So if an asset doesn't support OPC UA natively, they want to use connectivity software to connect to the device and then.
Translated to OPC away and our idea was to actually feed that connectivity software with a thing description.
So why is OPCOA so important? Well, there's several reasons, but the main reasons why OPCOA has become a worldwide standard and really, you know, there is no alternative that I see.
OPC Foundation is very successful. This slide is actually out of date. We have over 1000 members now in the OPC Foundation and it's it's so successful because mainly of these three properties of the OPCOA standard.
Like I mentioned already, it's very interoperable. It's open source. There's several open source reference implementations on GitHub. It's owned by a nonprofit, the OPC Foundation, and it is, you know.
Scalable from sensor to Cloud. I already mentioned the data modeling language. It's very powerful, very flexible, yet simple, but it can do. It can be extensible. It uses inheritance for example, so you can inherit from an existing type to create a new type.
And so on. So it's very powerful, but pretty simple. Everything is a node and the actual data model itself is a graph. So you can have relationships that go beyond simple parent child relationships. You can have references to other.
Nodes and so on, which is which is quite useful and in my opinion it has best in class security for operational technology, so it uses certificates for authentication.
So as authorization built in, all the important things that make up a good security solution is already available and the security standards in OVC way continue to be developed further.
To always be one step ahead of the bad actor.
Already mentioned the semantic information that is covered in so-called companion specs and the VDMA, the German Machine Builders Association have done an excellent job with over 600 companies involved in building these semantic companion specifications for a specific.
Asset types, you can see an extract here. This slide is always out of date because they're continuously delivering new semantic models, but you can see they're well on their way to covering the entire range of products of assets available today.
And this will continue forever, probably because as new asset types come out, new semantic models are created or existing ones are updated. So really the BDMA has has.
Really committed to using OPC way.
So I mentioned industrial connectivity software and this is really what people use to take proprietary assets and map them to OPC away. Here's a a sample of these connectivity software solutions.
There's plenty of them. They all have an OPC way interface northbound to the customer and southbound to the asset. They speak many different protocols depending on what kind of asset you're connecting.
They sometimes are referred to as protocol drivers in whoever things speak their protocol bindings, right? So again, you have a choice and the idea is that eventually all of these offerings will be able to use.
Web of things think descriptions as a input to configure specific assets. So let's have a look at the size of the problem. So these are estimated worldwide numbers, but they've been confirmed several Times Now with.
All sorts of members inside the OPC Foundation, so we feel pretty positive about them. Maybe they're off by a few percent here and there, but you know, to show you the problem space, you can really.
Argue that about 10% of all assets are discoverable, which means that you connect to them and you can extract the data model and its meaning from the asset itself.
So no Web of Things file required, however 90% of assets in industrial.
Equipment today is not discoverable, which means that you need some form of providing a description of the asset externally, for example through a web with instant description.
Now from those 90%, roughly 63%.
Um of the total.
Are fixed function assets, so their data model is always the same.
For example, for example, the center on pack, right? So that's great because it means that you ship your product, you create a web everything is followed once and you ship it along with your product and you're done right where it gets complicated.
Are so-called programmable assets or programmable PLC or you know, PLCS, programmable logic controllers, and their data model changes all the time. Every time you reprogram the PLC, you end up with a different data model.
So the only way to onboard such an asset, if it's not discoverable, is if you have the engineering projects that you use to program your PLC and you extract the data model from that engineering project, right? And that's possible, right? It's not.
Uncommon and I know Siemens is working on a way to extract the weather things file from their from their tier portal.
Engineering tool. They already have a preview of a derivative called asset interface description, but again, it is possible. Technically, it just needs to be done in the actual engineering software.
And other automation companies have similar tools and similar functionality. But again, whoever thinks functionality is something that end customers will have to ask for.
So what does the Web of Things file look like? You're all here in the Web of Things community, so I assume you know what that looks like. So I'm going to skip over this.
But what we've basically done is, like I mentioned, we have created an interface where we can provide a Web of Things file to industrial connectivity software to map an asset to OPC Wave.
So.
You know, providing the interface was actually relatively straightforward. You know, I mean, obviously all the connectivity software already has an OPC UA server interface, so it was an obvious choice to say let's just extend this OPC UA interface with the functionality to upload a Web of Things file.
But then we said, could we actually try to produce these Web of Things files automatically? So large language models have just been become widespread. I think when we started we had GPT 3.5, which was OK, it wasn't great, but it did work.
But certainly when GPT 4 came out, it started to really take off and we could generate these Web of Things files with just prompting, you know, the large language model to generate a Web of Things file for a certain asset.
And it would, you know, to 9095% complete completeness and accurate.
So we blogged about this on LinkedIn, got a lot of responses in a very short amount of time, so we realized we had a good thing going. So we said, OK, let's start a working group inside the OPC Foundation to define this interface.
And we actually set up another working group specifically for large language models to investigate what needs to be done to these large language models to make them even more accurate.
So what we ended up with was in fact a companion spec this time, not for a particular semantic model of a particular asset type, but with that interface description and how to upload a web everything's file to industrial connectivity software so.
In version 1.0 we had defined exactly 2 new methods, create asset and delete asset. Create asset would create an endpoint in the connectivity software and then basically use that endpoint to upload the file, the Web of Things file.
So we use standard file transfer mechanisms built into OPC UA. So file upload was pretty much already present. We didn't need to define that, so we just had to define create asset and delete asset, which was.
Good enough for a version 1.0. And of course we provide an open source reference implementation that we use for testing as a proof of concept, and in the meantime this is also available on the OPC Foundation GitHub.
Feedback was prompt. They said it's great, but some functionalities missing. So we created a 1.1 version straight afterwards where we added some convenience functions that were all optional. We didn't have to implement them, but they're useful because.
They add additional functionalities. So for example, you could call a method to do a simple connection test to the assets to see if the connectivity software actually, you know, is able to connect to the asset in the 1st place. Discover assets was added in version 1.1 specifically for assets that were in fact discoverable.
And in that case you could provide and I'll cover the questions in a minute. In that case you could provide wherever things file.
Or the Web of Things file could be provided automatically, right? So it would be generated from the the discovery process and then you could simply call create asset for endpoint and you could even download the Web of Things file.
From the industrial connectivity software, so file transfer happens in both directions, right? So this is useful if you, you know, are not happy with the generated. Well, everything's far from the industrial connectivity software and you want to add some additional information. So you would first download it, you make some changes and then you upload it again.
And that's what create asset for endpoint is used. So you can generate the Web of things file directly from the industrial connectivity software and then download it. Supported bindings basically returns the set of what protocol bindings that the industrial software.
Provides configuration is a way to configure the industrial connectivity software because a lot of offerings will require additional configuration and then finally license is for commissioning, so when you first.
You know, create an instance of industrial connectivity software. More than likely you will have to provide some sort of license key or license file. So we added that to the to the interface as well. So the question was.
Oh, it's already already answered, right? OK, perfect. Lovely. So that's basically the specification. It's available for download off the OPC Foundation website free of charge. You don't need to be a member of the OPC Foundation to get to any of the OPC ways specifications, including this one.
So anybody can download them.

So what does the reference implementation look like? So I mentioned during the development of the specification, we obviously wanted to try this out and we created an open source project on GitHub that's called UA Edge Translator and it is available from the OPC Foundation website.
And along with it, we created a simple tool that basically exercised the new interface. That tool is also available on GitHub and you can see the link here for. It's a UI based tool where you can simply onboard asset with three steps.
Using ChatGPT.
So you basically enter the make and model of the asset you're interested in. You generate the Web of things file from ChatGPT. It downloads directly to your PC.
Then you can use something like Siemens provided a Watt editor to the Eclipse Foundation called Editor with a D So you can use that directly.
From your PC, make modifications to the file. It does semantic validation which is useful and then you basically provide.
The file that you're happy with to UA Edge Translator by typing in the endpoints to Edge Translator on your network. Click on Send and you've onboarded the asset.
So what does one of these thing descriptions look like? Here's an example directly for the central pack and you know I mentioned the VDMA companion specifications right for particular asset types and even that information can be provided.
Inside the Web of Things file, which gives you an additional feature. It allows you to map not just to OPC UA, but to specific types defined in companion specs for a certain asset.
Types. So for example, there is a PROFINET energy monitoring companion specification specifically for energy monitoring equipment and the Centron pack is an energy monitoring asset.
And then you can say, OK, the properties in that web Web of things file should be mapped not just to OPC UA but also to the OPC UA types from the Profinet energy monitoring companion spec and a lot of customers that are members of the OPC Foundation, a lot of manufacturers.
That are members of the OPC Foundation like that very much because they in fact have created their own OPC way information model and defined types from different sources, different companion specs in them and want to map.
All their assets to those set of types, for example energy monitoring type or robot type or whatever it may be. So this information can also be provided.
So here is a screenshot of the Siemens editor that they contributed to the Eclipse Foundation. It's a Watt editor and it does validation of your Watt files. So for example, make sure that Jason syntax is correct to schema.
Validation is also taken care of and it renders the what file in a nice UI where you can add and remove additional information easily. And of course it also has GPT integration as you can see here on the top right.
Here so you can generate thing description files through that UI as well using ChatGPT.
So then once you're happy with the file, like I mentioned, all you have to do is provide the.
Endpoint to UAH translator on your network. It's usually opc.tcp something. Hit send, provide the file and the what file that you just generated and you're good to go. Once you've done that, here's a screenshot of the standard OPC UA client application.
Also available open source from the OPC Foundation and you can see it is in fact connected to UA Edge Translator and also here's a link to UA Edge Translator on the OPC Foundation GitHub if you're interested in it and you can see that it's already mapped.
The Siemens Central pack into its OPCOA server address space. So like I mentioned, Web of Things is part of the cloud initiative. Cloud initiative is much bigger than Web of Things, but Web of Things is an important part and you can see it here.
Connectivity working group is is in the under the umbrella of the cloud initiative, let's say.
And here's a screenshot of the reference architecture that the Cloud initiative has produced and #4 here is the industrial connectivity software component that is operating on premises at the manufacturer site and if you look at the equivalent.
Architecture using open source. You can see that UAH translator is used there, so it has its place firmly in the reference architecture of the OPC Foundation.
Cloud initiative and you can try it out today. In fact, UAS Translator now supports 11 southbound protocols, everything from Siemens to Rockwell to Beckoff to.
Modbus, of course for for Schneider and other PLCS, but also a lot of fixed function devices use Modbus. There's an experimental BAC net implementation. I'm working on a Matter implementation right now.
Which is not trivial, but you know, as we add these southbound protocol drivers, we obviously should also look at creating what protocol bindings for them to make sure that the what files that people produce.
Always look the same. So with that I'm at the end of my presentation and I.
Took I think exactly 30 minutes, which I hope is was was good and if there's other questions I can answer them in a chat now.



Sebastian: OneConnectivity internally and node-wot under Eclipse Foundation implement the OPC UA binding.

#### Q&A

Kerem Coban: What is the relationship between AAS and WoT?

Sebastian: There is a specific AAS Submodel called asset

EK: Do you see the willingness from manufacturers to provide their protocols' binding specs?

Erich: That would be ideal indeed.

Erich: Prosys supports WoT connectivity in their Forge product.

JH: Can I use the AAS Templates AID or AIMC for directly sending opc-ua to mqtt, kafka, etc. ?

Erich: Yes you can. The client I have shown can send to mqtt or kafka too

EK: Any features you want to see in the standards?

Erich: We will add new affordance types like actions and events. More adoption is needed. More should ask for WoT TD files. I am working on getting people to adopt wot connectivity.

Erich: More bindings are needed too. But it is easy to write them yourself.

Erich: I needed help with lorawan though. That was a bit tricky with some fields like doing bit masking and endianness. Also the Matter spec is huge.

Abidoun: Physics student here. As frontend developers are building tools around WoT Thing Descriptions, what are the current limitations or gaps in the TD specification that we should be aware of when designing UIs or developer tools?

Sebastian: You can build UIs based on the different affordances. Like widgets-based. For more advanced UIs, you need to leverage more semantics. Like to build a timeseries graph, you need more information.

Matthias Meier: W3C is working on a profinet binding. Does your LLM also support profinet too?

Erich: LLMs we use are generic. If you do prompt engineering, like saying make sure to include this binding. You need to experiment though. OpenAI provides the tools. You need to be specific though.

Erich: It would be more interesting to use RAGs together with LLMs. That would be more interesting.

Erich: UA Edge Translator can be improved upon. Feel free to add more protocols. You can use a simple interface to add more protocol driver implementations.

- 