# Meeting Minutes

## Info

:date: **Date:** 18 November 2024

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Luca Barbato
- Vignesh Vaidyanathan
- Anna Schmidt
- Dr. Pasha Shabalin
- Simone Tassi
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Jadyn D'mello
- Daniel Peintner
- Michael Koster
- Richard Bowman
- Oscar Juina
- Lorenzo Gigli
- Richard Kuntschke

## Meetup

### Introduction

Ege: Welcome to the 22nd meetup!

### News

Cris: the week after we will have WoT week a physical event dedicated to WoT.
Cris: We have office hours
Cris: let us know if you want to present something!

#### WoT Week

Cris: We will see each other from 25-29 November in Munich. Two venues, Siemens and Microsoft.

Cris: During the event we will host a Plugfest event an interoperability hackathon!

Cris: Wednesday it is demo time, you can show your WoT solution.

Cris: let us know if you want to join!

### Meetup Presentation

Vignesh: I work at CALA. We accelerate lasers to measure ions. It is remotely controlled due to high power laser or radiation.

Vignesh: You can measure the pulse or the cross section. Which allows you to get physical characteristics. So there are data analysis steps as well.

Vignesh: Data acquisition is IoT in the end.

Vignesh: High power lasers by stretching, reducing the frequency and then amplifying. In the end, it is compressed, where you get a high power pulse.

Vignesh: All these steps use custom built components. The whole setup cannot be bought.

> Vignesh shows the UI with different cameras and controls.

Vignesh: Here we can use WoT to work with the integration time value in the UI.

Vignesh: When we look at the devices, e.g. an oscilloscope, it has properties like time resolution. Actions like start acquisition. Events like measurement points.

Vignesh: However, those devices also have state machines. When a measurement is happening, you cannot the trigger value of a camera. 1 out of 4 cameras can do that.

> Vignesh shows the code part of Hololinked

Vignesh: from the code, we can autogenerate the TD.

> Vignesh shows property, action and event generation.

Vignesh: We can add state information. You can tell if an action is allowed in a state or not.

Vignesh: This is also reflected in the UI.

Vignesh: One important thing is to correlate the timing of different measurements.

Vignesh: Another part is how we can synchronize GUIs. Say, one user starts measurement from one PC.

Vignesh: GUI information about the state is also very important and it is device specific. So we can notify the other clients about state changes.

Vignesh: You can use the context API of frameworks like React or Svelte.

Vignesh: That is it for today. I can get questions now.

### Question

Cris: Is the last event implementation built on top of MQTT?

Vignesh: It is on ZMQ. You don't have to define multiple socket. Messaging contract is different.

Vignesh: We don't have a ZMQ binding though. It is interesting and the WebThing Protocol can be used by over ZMQ.

Vignesh: Images need to be a separate frame though.

Cris: What if you encode the image in JSON with base64 then you don't need another frame.

Vignesh: I also could not get nice image manipulation in JS so I use the python qt for that.

Richard: How do you handle big arrays like numpy?

Vignesh: You can pre-encode it in zeromq. You can dump the memory on the message quite easily.

Richard: Is there a standard way in msgpack (or JSON or whatever) to serialize a big numeric array? I'm wondering if there's something that's not numpy-specific?

Vignesh: Python's own parser was much more performant than numpy. C++ and JSON.

Ege: How is the state information conveyed to the Consumer?

Vignesh: there is a property but the machine itself is in my head. I hope that the standards can help.

Cris: You can also show different TDs per state, as long as there aren't so many states

Vignesh: I also do a lot of time-critical processing. Like 1ms time intervals are important.

Richard: I'm also curious how "dynamic" a thing description is allowed to be - I've sometimes assumed I can parse it once when I set up my client then assume it won't change: is that a bad idea?

Cris: there are some use cases to ask for dynamic TDs but they are not that developed yet. So you are doing correctly.

Ege: What does it mean to delete a property btw?

Vignesh: I want to free up the memory. I can either write an empty array or send a DELETE request.

Ege: So it is more like resetting

Cris: Or clearing.

Vignesh: I also fire a property update when there is a write.

Ege: How do you do async actions?

Vignesh: You can add `synchronous:False` which starts a thread but you cannot do anything with that thread.

Ege: Maybe you can combine the devices you are bringing with the openflexure microscope we have.

Richard: It would cool to test if the UI can control the microscope backend. I also have a new implementation that is almost ready. You can use a new OS image.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

- State machine modeling is missing.
- Long running actions is done differently between two implementations (hololinked vs openflexure)
