Meeting Minutes of 14 September 2023
===

:date: **Date:** 14 September 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Daniel Peintner
- Kaz Ashimura
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Mahda Noura
- Martin Voshell
- Michael McCool
- Minyong Li
- Nicoletta Fornara
- Robert Winkler
- Soheil Roshankish
- Tomoaki Mizushima
- Youngmin Ji
- Salvatore Cataldi
- Kudzai Manditereza
- Jorge Mozo
- Yoshitomo Sakuma
- Andrei Ciortea

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Daniel Peintner

:computer: **Intro Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lX4l2pUdsSQ0PV7WtWLFt60hnOwk3JOpl2IC6V5Zxq8/edit?usp=sharing

:computer: **WoT Intro Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11vr0c7hZ-_PcCj3w0qubTS6I2w8sFh3o-C32QjdJ5LA/edit?usp=sharing


### :scroll: Agenda

- 11:30 - 11:45 Introductions of Participants
- 11:45 - 12:15 Explaining Web of Things
- 12:15 - 12:45 Hands-on
- 12:45 - 13:00 Wrap-up and Discussions

### Hands-on Tutorial

Michael McCool: Do you have another scenario to share besides the one in the tutorial?
Cristiano Aguzzi: In node-wot, there are other scenarios like the counter sample, see https://github.com/eclipse-thingweb/node-wot/blob/master/examples/scripts/counter-client.js
Daniel Peintner: FYI: There are other examples on node-wot as well, see https://github.com/eclipse-thingweb/node-wot/tree/master/

---

Michael McCool: Long-running actions and how to handle that (w.r.t. coffee brewing)?
Cristiano Aguzzi: Correct, async response for brewing coffee (it takes some time).
Michael McCool: Or use event once the coffee is done would be possible too.

### Q&A

Robert Winkler: Is there a tool to generate TS files out of TD?
Cristiano Aguzzi: Good point. Nothing right now. Typing "could" probably be improved and mistyping will show up ("bruw" vs. "brew").

Michael McCool: No need to use node-wot for automation. node-wot is just an example in TS/JS. Other languages are possible. Automation can be done differently. Question "what is the best way to describe automation".
Robert Winkler: We developed a rule engine. Standardization might be great.
Ege Korkan Rule engine open source?
Robert Winkler: Unfortunately not
Michael McCool: Yaml sounds promising 
Michael McCool: Home assistant has done a lot of work with  NodeRED

Luca Barbato: WoT is missing ontologies?
Michael McCool: In different automation systems syntax differs, but structure is common across them
Luca Barbato: Need to find good ontology that matches the rule system
Michael McCool: We have good models to follow w.r.t. automation.

    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

