Meeting Minutes of 28 April 2023
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

:::spoiler Document Usage
This document is used for all minutes of the WoT CG. 
After the meeting, the contents will be copied to the GitHub with a PR.
For one week, changes can be requested and then t

===

###### tags: `Meetup`

:::spoiler Document Usage
This document is used for all minutes of the WoT CG. 
After the meeting, the contents will be copied to GitHub with a PR.
For one week, changes can be requested and then the PR will be merged.
After the PR is merged, the content here can be deleted.

Document Access:
- Everyone has read and commenting access
- Cristiano Aguzzi and Ege Korkan can edit the document
- Other people can request write access for a meeting
- The scribe of the meeting will have write access

<!-- Do not change this spoiler container when writing an instance document -->
<!-- See https://github.com/ikatyang/emoji-cheat-sheet for list of emojis -->
:::

:::info

:date: **Date:** 28 April 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Michael Mccool
- Justus Fries




:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

:computer: **Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Sqr3uJ_6lLoOGJ9z6Uttg5akKNZcB945yaponz26Uz0/edit?usp=sharing



### :scroll: Agenda

* Welcome
* News from the CG
* Web Scale Agents with WoT and No-Code Applications in IoT
* Q&A Session
* WebAgents CG
* Wrap up


## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

ca: Welcome everyone!
ca: We are more active in the web recently.
ca: 

### News from the CG

ca: You can join our internal meetings, our office hours

### Web Scale Agents with WoT and No-Code Applications in IoT

ca: Today we welcome Simon Mayer

... Simon is Professor of Interaction- and Communication-based Systems at the University of St.Gallen. Together with his research group (https://interactions.ics.unisg.ch/ ), he explores interactions among devices and people in ubiquitous computing environments.

... he is a seasoned WoT expert, here since the beginning

sm: Thank you. It was difficult to sum up everything!

sm: There are other people involved in this through the IntellIoT project.

sm: This has been a nice intereoperability journey

sm: I am a fan of runtime decision systems

sm: today I will be focusing on autonomous systems

#### IntellIoT

sm: we are a group of partners and our part was to bring agents systems in industrial environments

sm: We have deployed two use cases and want

#### Agriculture Use Case

sm: An agent can drive a tractor that has TDs in it. It gets position information

sm: the agent create artifacts like a TD, and they can be discovered in runtime

sm: And we enable domain experts to use no-code environments

sm: An operator can give a goal like "harvest field 5" and the agent can drive the tractor to do it

#### Industrial Use Case

sm: An agent can control robot to grab wood plates to engrave them

sm: The robot, engraver, etc. have all TDs.


### FIND TOPIC

#### Yggdrasil

sm: we have devices that register their TDs to our platform. Our environment can configure the agents who then speak with the Things

sm: in the center of the architecture, we have the Yggdrasil platform

sm: only recently we have started considering the Web. This brings interesting challenges, like agent experts finding Web too chaotic.

sm: We generate an RDF representation of the hypermedia environment

sm: This can be a proposal blueprint to use agents in WoT

#### No Code Development

sm: Our functional blocks are created based on TDs

... it allows to configure agents.

sm: The IDE fetches TDs from Yggdrasil

sm: The agent abstraction is better for programing 

sm: Bindings are resolved in runtime and this can be a way for Agents creation by WoT

#### TD Negotiation

sm: our goal is to have TDs as late as possible

... so that we can optimize everything

sm: There are non functional requirements like security that can be changed in run time

#### Journaling

sm: How to record what is happening in runtime 

#### Affordance Theory

sm: we want to use signifiers


### Wrap Up

sm: WoT is a good fit for achieving interoperability since it is very flexible

#### Questions and Answers

ek: is Yggdrasil a TDD?

sm: yes. It is WoT Hive in the background with some additional. Agents also have TDs that describe the interfaces. It also runs the agents as well.

ca: journaling can be used to optimize the interactions? 

sm: There can be lots that can be done with this. Our partners were thinking of auditing use cases, like legal implications.

sm: it would be nice to include payments as well.

ca: We have used dockers but it was abstracting a bit to much

ca: payments were a bit difficult since you have too much delay there.

sm: I am really interested in TD negotiation. We design based on what we are expecting. Then we can decouple things quite a lot.

ek: do you use node-wot to do with

sm: yes. we have extended a bit. We had partners having issues creating TDs.

... none of our partners created TDs, they sent us YAMLs and we had to create them.

... we need more authoring tools for TDs. It was a bit frustrating.

ek: what is difficult to create TDs?

sm: it is not the software and tooling that is missing... It is people being used to one technology or not.

ek: what is the range of negotation for TDs?

sm: function has to be exposed. I want this in design and engineering time. I typically need to bind to input parameters. This way I can have 

mm: What about events. interaction started by Things like notifications. How does you system manage it?

sm: we use it in our escalation system where the Thing notifies to the AI system and that sends to the Human when needed.

... essentially via callbacks.



<!-- Is the tractor stupid? Agents just "uses" the tractor -->
<!-- slide 12, is yggdrasil a discovery repo? -->
<!-- how do you resolve bindings in runtime? -->
<!-- preconditions, what do you mean by that? -->
<!-- Since tds are negotiated, what are the limits -->


### Wrap up
    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None

