Meeting Minutes of 4 April 2023
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

:date: **Date:** 4 April 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Erich Barnstedt
- Sebastian Käbisch
- Felix Paulini
- Bernd Meyer
- Michael Mccool
- Justus Fries
- Luca Roffia
- Minyong Li
- Christian Winkler
- Ivan Dimitry Ribeiro Zyrianoff
- Lorenzo Gigli
- Holger Kenn
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Sivarama Raman
- Michael Witterauf
- Tobias Limmer
- Coleman Brumley
- Martin Stiller
- Hans Gschoßmann
- Tatiana Mangels
- Simona Arsene
- Daniel Peintner
- Youssefeldin Khaled Taha Ebrahim Ragab Ahmed
- Matteo Vitali
- Gregorio Monari
- Shiva
- mike_314@gmx.de
- Fady Salama
- Marco
- Jozef Kralik
- York Schmidtke



:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cristiano Aguzzi

:computer: **Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mIqp21oQg92ZrPttWJeM9iE1QcV-JPMcJyY37a9N-bc/edit?usp=sharing 



### :scroll: Agenda

* Welcome
* News from the CG
* Automated Industrial Asset Onboarding Using Open Standards 
    * Q&A Session
* Discussion on field-level gateways and onboarding
* Wrap up


## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

Ege Korkan: welcome! Today we have a presentation from Microsoft and Siemens about Automanted onboarding of industrial assets

### News from the CG

Ege Korkan: we host an internal meeting every month. if you want to know what the CG does join us. If you need to ask questions every thursday. Today call will be recorded and avaible in our youtube channel. 

Ege Korkan: next meetups: Simon Mayer on a multi agent system


### Automated Industrial Asset Onboarding Using Open Standards 

Ege Korkan: Erich Barnstedt Microsoft for 20 years, founder of Azure Industrial IoT team. 

Ege Korkan: Sebastian Käbisch senior key expert at Seimens Technology. Sebastian is active memeber and contributor of different standardization groups.

Ege Korkan: Felix software developer since 2014. He developed a lot of connectivity solutions. Owner for Siemens product SayWoT! 

Sebastian Käbisch: Hello to every one, thank you for having us. Topic is automated industrial asset onboarding. Pedram Hadjian also worked on the presentation but he is not avaible today because holiday time. 

Sebastian Käbisch: there are multiple use-cases where interoperability is a key aspect. Data coming from the field is very etherogienuos (both in data models and device types). 

Sebastian Käbisch: how does it look like using Azure IoT? typically you start describing the devices at the very bottom, you have to do the mapping between different devices, and finally you can create your application. A lot of manual steps need to be done. 

*Sebastian Käbisch shows a typical software stack in slide 6*

Sebastian Käbisch: Tools to do automatic mapping to opc-ua are usually used. Finally you can create a graph at the top level. 

Sebastian Käbisch: changing the stack means make everything complicated again. 

Sebastian Käbisch: using different integration stacks but there is an effort to traslate. 

Sebastian Käbisch: how can we overcame this downsides? we can use the Web of Things to simplify the onboarding process. It is IT-frendly, and have a great community.

Sebastian Käbisch: how can we use the Web of Things to integrate a device. 

Felix Paulini: Sebastian already motivated why is good to have a common description for each device. With WoT we have a common understanding. 

Felix Paulini: in the TD of this device you have to define the forms to integrate the device

Felix Paulini: the next step is to instruct different stacks to use the information inside the TD. 

Felix Paulini: map the whole device model to a common undestanding using the opc-ua companion specification. Extending the context of TD we can introduce opcua specific keywords. 

Felix Paulini: We want to create a Digital Twin graph which means undestand the devices and their topology

Felix Paulini: thanks to TD every stack can share the same code, protocol translation might be done in a costumizable way. 

Felix Paulini: the intresting part is if we share the effort to create TD or maintain the tools around the TD we can use the same model for different applications. 

Felix Paulini: we will start by creating a device in the SayWot! stack. 

*Felix Paulini shows SayWoT! interface*

*Felix Paulini creates and add a Thing Description in the system*

Felix Paulini: we have the same data model we can re-use it in other tools. 

*Felix Paulini shows InfluxDB integration*

*Erich Barnstedt takes over to show the onboarding of the Thing Description*

Erich Barnstedt: we build a UA Edge-Traslator to map WoT devices to OPC-UA. The Thing Description is the same with a link to the OPC-UA companion specification. 

Erich Barnstedt: we can see that we can map devices that used to be modbus only to OPC-UA, enabling automatic onboarding. 

*Erich Barnstedt shows a docker environment*

*Erich Barnstedt runs the edge translator*

*Erich Barnstedt connects with OPC-UA client explorer*

*Erich Barnstedt runs another docker image called cloud publisher*

Erich Barnstedt: the traslato allows users to pass a WoT TD file. I can upload the TD showed previously but I need to update the base address. Then we can pass it to the traslator. Now the opc-ua server will expose new reources accordingly to the Thing Description. You can then interact with it. 

Sebastian Käbisch: the demo was spontanous it wasn't test before. As you can see it worked even in a web conference. 

### Q&A Session

Ege Korkan: thank you for the presentation. 

McCool: You spend some time tracking the IP address, can WoT discovery help you there?

Erich Barnstedt: configuring the IP is the last manual step, if there was an automatic mechanism it would have helped there. 

McCool: we have defined mDNS to automatic discover TDs but it does not really work in industrial scenearios. I'm integrating HomeAssistant devices trying to make it automatic. 

Erich Barnstedt: we want to reach an high level of automation in the end. We are working with ChatGTP to automatically generate Thing Descriptions. Initial results are good but they can be improved. We can even use as an intial step. 

Michael Mccool:  there is not enough train data to illustrate examples to chatGTP. 

Erich Barnstedt: we are working with Siemens to access a vast amount of device examples. 

Michael Mccool:  with home assistant we have a good amount of it. 

Erich Barnstedt: we don't build a library of Thing Descriptions. 

Michael Mccool:  We have also the testing repo with a good amount of Thing Descriptions.

Sebastian Käbisch: yeah we can start also from there. 

Michael Mccool:  you can use also a feedback approach to train the model. 

Ege Korkan: TD creation happen only once. 

Michael Mccool:  we can create Thing Models. Discovery can fill the blanks. 

Erich Barnstedt: When we started we didn't aspect to have results but if we are able to automatically onboard such a huge number of devices with wot we are doing a great service to the industry. 

Erich Barnstedt: we are not competing with connectivity providers, but we are suggesting a process. Providers have already a configuration interface but it is propertary but it doesn't scale well. Edge traslator is only a reference implementation not a product. There is interest in the industry. 

Sebastian Käbisch: There will be talk in the Hannover fair about OPC-UA. I'm invited to give a talk about Web of Things and the ediTDor project. 

Michael Mccool:  can we get a recorded video?

Erich Barnstedt: we can re-do it but I think it will be published on YouTube. 

Ege Korkan: From your side is there any missing feature in the current WoT specification? 

Erich Barnstedt: the discovery would be nice, but not really useful in industrial scenarios. Templating mechanism is nice. 

Felix Paulini: It would be nice to have binding templates for different protocols standardized. 

Sebastian Käbisch: one of the major efforts for the next charter. 

Ege Korkan: last week Sick AG needed support for IO Link


### Discussion on field-level gateways and onboarding


### Wrap up
    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None
