
Meeting Minutes of 23 March 2023
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

### info

:date: **Date:** 23 March 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Matthias Held
- Mario Haßler 
- Luca Roffia
- Manuel Goerbert
- Braun, Michael
- Christian Glomb
- Pedram Hadjian
- Eugenio Silva
- Bernardo Augusto
- Stefan Pollmeier
- Phillip
- Sebastian Kaebisch
- Luca Barbato
- Martin Stiller
- Daniel Peintner
- Christian Winkler
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Mark Todd
- Matthias Richter
- Sandro Kock
- Jiye Park
- Tatiana Mangels
- Graziano Grespan
- Felix Paulini
- Alex D'Andrea
- Jan Romann
- York Schmidtke
- Philipp Blum
- Andrea Saracino
- Ivan Dimitry Ribeiro Zyrianoff
- Josh Cohen
- Frank

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

:computer: **Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LsE6-5ZQ5h_rt2W1zvAE1cVsdrlKCgb4Cf9i2RFYnkk/edit?usp=sharing 


### :scroll: Agenda

- Welcome
- News from the CG
- Empowering Industrial Automation with WoT 
- Q&A Session
- Discussion on TM-driven Workflows and Onboarding
- Wrap up

## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

Cristiano Aguzzi: (presents the agenda)

Cristiano Aguzzi: (introduces himself)

Ege Korkan (introduces himself)

Cristiano Aguzzi: we have different pages for the CG, you can find the links here

Cristiano Aguzzi: and now we have a Discord server that you can join and talk with the community

### News from the CG

Cristiano Aguzzi: We have next internal meeting on the 3rd of April

Cristiano Aguzzi: also we have 3 new meetups planned with Microsoft, Siemens, Schaeffler and University of St. Gallen

Cristiano Aguzzi: In our Discord server, if you are an implementation owner, you can ask to have your an implementation channel

Cristiano Aguzzi: we have a growing interest in WoT, worldwide as well.

### Empowering Industrial Automation with WoT

Cristiano Aguzzi: (introduces the speaker and SICK AG)

Matthias Held: I will talk about our WoT implementation

(shows the agenda)

Matthias Held: we have a portfolio of 40000 product with different features

... this way we create different solutions. Our customers are flexible

... the challenge we have faced was integrating devices

... we use these sensors in factories where the applications are custom

... we have to connect the operational technology to informational technology.

... we need to connect data but also the metadata of the sensors, like manufacturer information

... we need the relationships as well so that we can show a controller and the sensors it controls

#### Creating TMs

Matthias Held: we create TMs via the EdiTDor project

... the TMs are then stored in a database

... these become our building blocks that can be reused.

... we have a low-code platform that connects to the devices

... the final implementation building block has the TM and the protocol implementation

#### SICK ConnectX

Matthias Held: we bridge the shopfloor and IT

... support HTTP and MQTT northbound

... southbound protocols as well, such as IOL-JSON and our proprietary protocols

... the devices are configured via our web tool

... we build relationships as well, controller having child sensor things

... we represent them as a graph that can be displayed

#### Challenges

Matthias Held: we faced a challenge that schema.org annotations are not going to be enough

... we will create our own ontology soon

... in the end the edge is connected to the cloud via SICK LiveConnect

... we can also reverse client-server for cloud applications so that we can bypass the firewalls

... it is a secure ws based protocol

... this way we have digital twins of our sensors in the cloud

... we have a tunneling protocol in the end, we support all the affordances through it

... we have two TDDs, local and cloud. The cloud one is a readonly

#### SICK AssetHub

Matthias Held: In the end, a company can monitor all their assets as digital twins on the SICK AssetHub

... we can manage any device that has a TD

... we can then build applications on top of everything

... for example, SICK Dashboard App to monitor.

... you can also have AR applications that overlays real data

#### Summary

Matthias Held: (summarizes the approach)

### Q&A Session

Pedram Hadjian: I am very impressed. Do you also link handbooks to the TDs?

Matthias Held: We do not do it yet, but we want to in the future

Pedram Hadjian: The question came up quite a bit recently since we need to differentiate between semantic links and links to documentation.

Pedram Hadjian: What do you think of open source? I want to start a community for authoring TDs.

Matthias Held: We have started the legal process for that. contribution to node-wot and scripting api is planned

Pedram Hadjian: How many people worked on this?

Matthias Held: we are 10-20 working on it

Michael Braun: How do you map data to semantically enriched model? In my process automation view, there are devices with conditions. How are they evaluated?

> original question: Mapping of data from devices to a semantically enriched model: Straight forward 1:1 or additional combinations (e.g. expressions) possible

Matthias Held: we are letting application engineers do some of these manually. Sometimes the annotations are enough

Daniel Peintner: you are using schema.org . You are facing the issue that some terms are missing. Do you want to contribute to schema.org?

Matthias Held: We would like to if possible. We are searching for possibilities to where to do that.

Michael Braun: There are other vocabularies out there as well, such as OPCUA with layered vocabularies.

Matthias Held: Is there an overview of these vocabularies?

Michael Braun: These are the companion specifications.

Luca Roffia: Have you developed 3rd party adapters?

Matthias Held: We have developed for our proprietary protocol but we will have IO Link soon

Sebastian Kaebisch: Congratulations. You have come really far, really nice presentation. W3C and OPC Foundation are going to work together in the new charter. In addition to the OPC UA binding, we will have work on how to use the data models in the companion specifications.

... I will also hold a talk about this in the Hannover Fair.

Sebastian Kaebisch: Do you have TDs available?

Matthias Held: You can see them in the asset hub.

Sebastian Kaebisch: let's exchange about this.

Felix Paulini: Are you using open source implementations? Like the TDD?

Matthias Held: We contribute to Editdor but there was no suitable TDD implementation when we looked for one at the start of our implementatino. 

... So we did ours but we are using node-wot.

Felix Paulini: How was your experience with searchability in the TDD?

Matthias Held: We have a very basic search. The actual search will come later.

Pedram Hadjian: Are you using annotations for the specific data types?

Matthias Held: yes

Matthias Held: the relationships between TDs are based on the network.

... there are new features coming

Stefan Pollmeier: I have pasted a link for submodel templates link from IDTA. They are connected to ECLASS which is connected IEC CDD. 

... Are you looking into such semantics as well?

Matthias Held: We are looking into AAS as well but I am not involved.

Sebastian Kaebisch: I can give news on AAS. There is one SM that is reflecting the TD approach. It is called the Asset Interface Description. I am making sure that we reflect the TD approach so that existing implementations do not have to change too much.

Matthias Held: I have read your paper on this.

Ege Korkan Anything lacking in the standards?

Matthias Held: Not really. Internally, we generally have discussion on what the spec means.

Ege Korkan Do you have some recommendation for new implementations?

Matthias Held: I have started with a virtual thing. That I could do very well. Then you can follow the track and build up. Just try, get your hands "dirty".

Ege Korkan Does the smartphone app use cloud connection or shopfloor.

Matthias Held: It is the shopfloor connection since we have a lot of data.

Ege Korkan Would you be interested in joining the standardization.

Matthias Held: Yes I would be interested.

### Discussion on TM-driven Workflows and Onboarding

Ege Korkan TM based Onboarding.

Matthias Held: We define the application based on the TM. We can then build small TMs and combine them.

Cristiano Aguzzi: More the templating or composition?

Matthias Held: We are using more the composition. Our products do not use the placeholders as far as I know.

Matthias Held: We are not generating the TD from the TM. The TD is generated based on the information we have.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Does it follow the spec?

Matthias Held: I am not sure, I need to check.

Pedram Hadjian: How do you store TDs in the backend?

Matthias Held: we have a NoSQL db. It is now possible to configure one.

Pedram Hadjian: can you query links? or give all TDs with type equals something

Matthias Held: no we cannot do it.

Ege Korkan So the client gets the TD then builds the graph?

Matthias Held: yes indeed.

Pedram Hadjian: if you use a document store, you can at least do json path.

Matthias Held: we have a DB for TMs and that is a graph db.

### Wrap up
    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

Prepare links to share for the next.

Add office hours to the closing slides.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None