Meeting Minutes of 13 March 2023
===

###### tags: `Internal Meeting`

### info

:date: **Date:** 13 March 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Luca Barbato
- Anastasios Zafeiropoulos



:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

:computer: **Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1q6L3SPLLJLk5VMNACx-YcP1kShtYr7IU7AGj9WrXw98/edit?usp=sharing


### :scroll: Agenda

* Welcome
* Chat Platform News
* WoT WG Charter and New Contributors
* Next Meetups
* Conferences on the Horizon
* WoT Ecosystem at W3C
* Developer Meetup from WoT IG


## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

Anastasios Zafeiropoulos: I am coming from National Uni of Athens. We are coordinating a horizon europe project called [NEPHELE](https://nephele-project.eu/).

... virtual objects development that is similar to WoT.

... how to manage IoT applications. We want to monitor this group and give feedback.

... we have Siemens and W3C in our consortium that suggest using WoT specifications. We have started using it last week.

Ege Korkan: we seem to have eu projects that use WoT standards now

Cristiano Aguzzi: yes now we have 3 EU projects at the moment. Ours is [ontochain](https://ontochain.ngi.eu/content/ados). A spanish member had implemented this: https://airtrace.io/

### Chat Platform News

Ege Korkan: We have chosen Discord based on the votes. People have joined already.

Ege Korkan: We can set up some settings, like enabling community.

Cristiano Aguzzi: We can also host events there, we can do a test try.

Luca Barbato: Dart wot implementors can be added as well.

Cristiano Aguzzi: we should decide on a process. Maybe just saying if you ask for it, we can add it.

Ege Korkan: We can ask for suggestions in a specific channel.

... I will send a resolution

### WoT WG Charter and New Contributors

Ege Korkan: You can go ahead and provide feedback.

... I will skip showing it for now

### Next Meetups

Ege Korkan: We have two companies presenting their WoT stacks. Also, Cristiano will present their solution for a transformers monitoring.

Anastasios Zafeiropoulos: an introduction event would be definitely nice.

### Conferences on the Horizon

Ege Korkan: If you know anyone who is presenting at Hannover Messe 2023, let us know.

### WoT Ecosystem at W3C

Ege Korkan: We can ask to be listed there. Any objections?

Cristiano Aguzzi: It would be good to be listed there.

### What is missing

Anastasios Zafeiropoulos: We took the python implementation and adapted it to the latest specification. It would be good to have a session where developers can ask questions.

Luca Barbato: Do you mean the one from [webthings](https://github.com/WebThingsIO/webthing-python)?

Cristiano Aguzzi: I think it is the [wot-py](https://github.com/agmangas/wot-py)?

Anastasios Zafeiropoulos: Yes that.

Ege Korkan: You can join the office hours. Me and Cris are always available there.

Luca Barbato: You can actually use the wot-rust implementation in there?

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

1. Announce the Discord more publicly via Linkedin, Twitter, etc. Send email about this in general

2. Talk to Ian Jacobs about being listed in the WoT ecosystem.

3. WoT Introductory Meetup and Regularity of it.

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks
