Meeting Minutes of 05 October 2023
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

## info

:date: **Date:** 05 October 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Sy Bohy
- Justus Fries
- Andreas Hennig
- Patrick Fabre
- Luca Roffia
- Michael Koster
- Michael McCool
- Daniel Peintner
- Luca Bertelli
- Josh Cohen
- Christian Glomb (13th)
- Bernie Miao
- York Schmidtke
- Jan Romann
- Ivan Dimitry

### :scroll: Agenda

- News from the CG
- Introduction of the Speaker
- Presentation
- Q&A
- Discussion on Smart Homes

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege

:computer: **Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17Whb-1nKF949bWN3dXjEin7q0nuJW9kUsVXgp3HlcLY/edit?usp=sharing

## Meetup

### Introduction

Cristiano Aguzzi: (explains the logistics)

Cristiano Aguzzi: CG WG Collaboration is underway at https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/pull/93 

Cristiano Aguzzi: We have a tutorial website shaping up at https://whatiswot.netlify.app/ that we will move to github.io

Cristiano Aguzzi: We have a Home Assistant Focus Group forming, lead by Josh Cohen. See https://github.com/w3c/wot-cg/tree/main/FocusGroups/HomeAssistant

Cristiano Aguzzi: For the next meetup, join the CG to be notified.

### Speaker Introduction

Cristiano Aguzzi: With a background in multiple engineering fields and startups, now as the CEO of Seam, he has the goal of building an API for the Things around us

### Presentation

Sy Bohy: We read the WoT stuff at W3C and also what Mozilla has done

Sy Bohy: We will see what it means to design an API for the physical world

Sy Bohy: We had to diverge in some areas to have business customers

#### About me

Sy Bohy: I grew up in france. Studied in Stanford. I did a lot of stuff.

Sy Bohy: I did an internship at Nest. It was an interesting point for IoT.

Sy Bohy: It was interesting that they were shrinking computers, together with the cost

Sy BohyFranceomputing wat going to integrate into everything, so the thermostat was born.

Sy Bohy: I did not do a PhD but stayed at Nest.

#### Company

Sy Bohy: We have people all over the world

Sy Bohy: Even after 10 years after Nest, I think it is still getting started.

Sy Bohy: We had a lot of friends doing solutions for tech companies. We heard many saying that they need to incorporate an IoT device. 

Sy Bohy: In the US, there is an API solution for each important tech to grasp, like Stripe, plaid, and Twilio.

Sy Bohy: With IoT, there is a similar problem. That is why we built Seam.

Sy Bohy: We build hw and sw

Sy Bohy: We have 3 products: Auth flows, standardized APIs, and UI components. We will talk about the API in detail today.

Sy Bohy: Seam and WoT have a similar message. The fragmentation is a real problem.

Sy Bohy: IoT is like smartphones before the iPhone. Without the App Store, we had programmers who could not access the hw layer easily.

Sy Bohy: We have a similar issue with IoT.

#### Relationship to WoT

Sy Bohy: We like the Thing Description idea. Encapsulating everything about the device.

Sy Bohy: However, TD still does not solve the fragmentation. I still need to deal with a bunch of different TDs

Sy Bohy: developers do not want to worry about the details. For a door lock, I just want to unlock the door.

Sy Bohy: It is not nice if I need to think of different permutations.

Sy Bohy: we have capabilities that can be broken into properties, actions, and events.

Sy Bohy: These come from different places like Z-Wave, SmartThings, and Mozilla WebThings.

Sy Bohy: Standardized capabilities are really useful. The code looks similar for different manufacturers

Sy Bohy: You need a bunch of infrastructure to make it work though.

Sy Bohy: We have some limitations still. E.g. some locks may not allow a code that starts with 0 for example. Maybe due to storing it as an integer.

Sy Bohy: We cannot say that we do not support some devices since people have installed them. Or we cannot force manufacturers to align their APIs

Sy Bohy: You can still document them though.

Sy Bohy: And then you can hide those limitations

Sy Bohy: like using the last 4 digits of a phone may not work but we can find an alternative while still making it possible for the guest to remember.

Sy Bohy: In our roadmap, we have started with access control. Providing access control programmatically was what people wanted.

Sy Bohy: we are supporting some thermostats already and we will extend to cameras.

Sy Bohy: Camera infrastructure is hard. We have been writing in TypeScript but we are getting into Rust due to that.

Sy Bohy: We are hiring, by the way, looking for sharp minds with kind souls.

Sy Bohy: It is difficult to sell for developers.

### Q&A

cg: Are you actually using TDs or just inspired?

Sy Bohy: it is inspired at the moment but it is one of the discussion topics.

Sy Bohy: We are running into the fragmentation problem ourselves. I would like a world where manufacturers have TDs. It would make our life easier. Maybe we should write the TDs. Going open source should help with this.

Sy Bohy: Our motivation is to

Michael McCool: AI can help with the generation of TDs or TMs. TMs are new and they can be used for this. Have you looked into TMs?

Sy Bohy: Is it enough to express capabilities? You have other issues.

Michael McCool: We also have semantic annotations to help with some of these issues. You also need to map data and one affordance into multiple affordances.

Sy Bohy: Are TMs enough? We have to describe many combinations.

Michael McCool: We should understand what is a missing feature of a standard and what is missing in open source stack.

Cristiano Aguzzi: The ability to mock up and support dynamic environments is missing.

Sy Bohy: There is the concept of emerging behavior. Once you have 

Sy Bohy: Smart Things has the concept of schedules but it is done via an infrastructure.

Josh Cohen: You had a slide about a JSON Example. What is that, and where is it used?

Sy Bohy: It is like a TD but not really. We need this information.

Josh Cohen: If I am a manufacturer, should I write this myself?

Sy Bohy: Yes in an ideal world but we end up testing since even different FW versions change this.

Josh Cohen: Is this like your version of a TD for your infrastructure?

Michael Koster: At SmartThings, we had a capability model a bit like yours. You need a capability-based TD to be consumed. We had a lot of fixup code at SmartThings. We have the concept of protocol bindings, you need to include data mapping instructions.

Michael Koster: At iotschema.org was also in this direction but you have a really practical approach here.

Sy Bohy: We saw your drafts a lot

Ege Korkan: What do you think the TD needs to have this expressivity?

Sy Bohy: It is difficult to do this with a capability schema.

Ege Korkan: Are APIs public?

Sy Bohy: yes but we want users to use the SDKs since it is a better experience

Sy Bohy: We test a lot of devices. Our office is a mess since we need to test the edge cases a lot. So a schema will not help 100%.

Andreas Hennig: Do you have a public catalog of device types described in capabilities? To see how much could be converted to TM?

Sy Bohy: Very nice question. We have a device catalogue which will be also open-source soon.


    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None

