Meeting Minutes of 11 May 2023
===


:::spoiler Document Usage
This document is used for all minutes of the WoT CG. 
After the meeting, the contents will be copied to the GitHub with a PR.

===

###### tags: `Meetup`

:::spoiler Document Usage
This document is used for all minutes of the WoT CG. 
After the meeting, the contents will be copied to GitHub with a PR.
For one week, changes can be requested and then the PR will be merged.
After the PR is merged, the content here can be deleted.

Document Access:
- Everyone has read and commenting access
- Cristiano Aguzzi and Ege Korkan can edit the document
- Other people can request write access for a meeting
- The scribe of the meeting will have write access

<!-- Do not change this spoiler container when writing an instance document -->
<!-- See https://github.com/ikatyang/emoji-cheat-sheet for list of emojis -->
:::

:::info

:date: **Date:** 28 April 2023

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Christof Künstler
- Sven Pelzer

Mangels, Tatiana (T CED EWT-DE)
Fries, Justus
Glomb, Christian (T CED EWT-DE)
Hadjian, Pedram (SI CTO SSA)
Saha, Bitan  SF/HZA-ZC2T
Schmidtke, York (SMO RI R&D DF 5)
Kunihiko Toumura
Freund, Michael
Sauer, Christopher  SF/HZA-ZC3T
Peintner, Daniel (ext) (T CED EWT-DE)
Oladipupo, Kazeem Olamilekan (T CED EWT-DE)
Winkler, Christian (T CED)
Pavel Krasouski
Kaebisch, Sebastian (T CED EWT-DE)
Fady Salama
Brenner, Andreas  SF/HZA-ZCT
Philipp Blum
Kock, Sandro [EMR/DISC/DAUT/LAAT]
Fernandes, Nuno (GBS DS DT DL)
Michael Koster
Lorenzo Gigli
Winkler, Robert


:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cristiano Aguzzi

:computer: **Slides:** https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1j1trj42kzy7FWaYR3xne39Ic_PJqjszjEmXIww7x_qU/edit?usp=sharing



### :scroll: Agenda

* Welcome
ek: Welcome to our 8th meetup. After presentation we will have a discussion about DT and how WoT can be used.

ek: if you have questions use the Q&A feature
* News from the CG

ek: We have internal meetings next one is set to be the 5th of June. We have also a YouTube channel where we post the recordings. 

ek: Next meetup is about WoT for Beginners and a new tutorial series! 

* Advantages and Challenges of Web of Things for Digital Twins

ek: Today we have 2 speakers from Schaeffler Group. Christof is an Expert Data Architect and working on differnet products, then we have Sven a solution architect from Schaeffler. 

Ch: Advantages and challenges of WoT in building digital twin solutions.

Ch: We are working in the deparment of Data and digital solutions. 

Ch: Schaeffler produces metal parts and mechatronics components. Most known product is bearings (small and large scale). Everything that is rotating have a Schaeffler product in it. 

Ch: we are distrubted world wide with more than 83.000 employees. Revenue 15 billions, we registered 1.250 patents. We are trying to be innovitive and invest in R&D. 

Ch: When it cames to DT you hear a lot of buzzwords. Each deparment/expert have its own opinion about what a DT is really is. 

Ch: We have a product-centric view to incresee the revenue and/or reduce the cost. For us is a digital representation of a physcial thing. 

Ch: Imagine to map everything you know about the product in the cloud. Like a network connected with the phisical world. We want to have each product produced represented in the cloud. This way we have track of everything about it. If there are sensors attach we want to also interact with the sensors. WoT was our choice because it maps well our goal to represent our products in the digital world (properties, actions, event).

Ch: Our most advanced bearings have sensors attached (load, speed, etc.). 

Ch: In the beginning it works very well. We ship the data to the customer togheter with the product. We used WoT standard. The final custumer was able to interact with our product. 

Ch: we had a data integration layer where we ingested data and standardized its represation. 

Ch: We exposed a rest api following WoT standard.

Sven: similar products, customer wants to search about properties. Also, a lot of properties are the same across different bearings, just the ID changes. We have a lot of properties but similar to each single product. 

Sven: We have fixed values but different ids. Millions of elements with the same phisical properties but different IDs. 

Sven: Our customers don't use Thing Description. What is the benifit of using Thing Description instead of Swagger? We build a conversion tool. 



* Q&A Session
Philpp: Is this Java WoT library open source, or do you plan to open source it?

Sven: not yet, maybe in the future. 

Ege: nice presentation. Thank you for sharing the challeges. 

Christian: Your companies build bearings and at the same time you describe those TDs. What is the lifecycle of these TDs?

Sven: We attach a TD afterwards. The business decide which properties to publish. In the future we are trying to automate.

Ch: there is governance involved. 

Christian: do you have anything else beside properties? 

Sven: No events, no actions. 

Ch: there is a big overhead, nobody wants to interact with the remote thing. 

Sven: const valued are stored in a DB. 

*Ch shows an example of data slide 20*

Sven: this api is not really used by our customers

Cris: is it possible to move some of this static information directly to the TD itself?

Sven: There is a lot of dynamicity, we personilize our products to the customer needs. 

Phillipp: Regarding the search. Did you try to use SPARQL for that puporse?

Ch: have you tried a semantic database with millions of even more? it cannot handle our use case. 

Pedram: same expirience with the semantic database. Storing the data in the DB and then represent it with the TD is right. But you are not forced to TD. If you have the data in a normalized format you can go DB, but with sensors make sense to have a TD. It depends from the use case but SPARQL is bad. GraphQL is used to do geo queries.

Ch: what we wish in the future is the machine is able to interact locally with the product via the standard. We have also a digital product catalog based on WoT too. Get data digitally. 

Sven: is not WoT actually. But the workflow is similar

Pedram: Do you have collaboration with customers that want to implement some machine learning workflow? 

Sven: not really, we have only the use cased presented today. We do not offer sensor data. We offer product data. 

Ch: no customer required. 

Pedram: which protocol do you use to probe the sensors? 

Sven: it depends on the customer that assemble the wind turbine or other machine. 

Pedram: there is a lot of variations in our industry, but embed a TD can help. 

Ege: there is tool that does the conversion between TD and Swagger. 

Sven: nice. We have a internal tool. 

Ege: if you use the TM we can do something. 

Sven: we create a different view of the same TD for different customers. for legal reasons. 

Ege: any other questions?

Ege: how is teaching WoT to your customers? 

Sven: we make some meetings with the dev team. The fact that is json is helpful.

Pedram: we want to enable people work on IoT data with opensource intiative. 

Ege: Have you used Thing Models?

Sven: not right now. The user requirements were pressing and we didn't have time to look into it. 

Ege: you started using WoT 2 years ago?

Sven: yes

Ege: quite early. At the time did you considered other stuff? how was the decision process?

Ch: We browsed different solutions and one of the criteria was also how easy it was to digest the docs or the spec. WoT was very close to our way of thinking. It was also mature enough for us to use. Om was useful for interacting. Human and machine readibility was important. We didn't know if at one point humans were involved in the loop. 

<!-- Backup questions -->
<!-- What were some other standards or methods you have considered in the initial evaluation page -->
<!-- Why use propreties instead of simply store static informatio at root level? !-->
<!-- Do you use TMs? -->
<!-- How is the bearing onboarded?  -->

* Digital Twins discussion

Ege: do you see wot to have an issue of handling live data from the factory?

Ch: Had some expirience in the past but I not sure. 

Sven: Currently, we are not planning to do it. We don't have live data. If we have we are getting it from 3rd parties. We consume data. 

Ch: Our customers ask for analysis.

Ege: Feature wishes to the standard?

Sven: Access level mapping could be cool. We are in discussion with CatenaX. Our use case property level access. 

Ch: I like Pedram idea of having open source. Would speed up everything. 

Pedram: The magic happens when you can write script and everything works. We will start from that. We have server API side. We need an open source IDE.

Cris: Which tech are using?

Sven: Java and windows servers

Cris: Can you use TDs to kind of harness variability in user data? 

Sven: Consuming user data is always done in MVPs and we don't have a product. 

* Wrap up

Ege: thank you for the presentation, if you want to stay in touch you can use our resources online. 

Ege: we will see in two weeks with the next meetup. 

## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

### News from the CG

### Advantages and Challenges of Web of Things for Digital Twins 

### Wrap up
    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None

