# Meeting Minutes

## info

:date: **Date:** 21 November 2025

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Tomoaki Mizushima
- Piotr Sowiński
- Thomas Jäckle
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Ben Francis
- Rahul
- Alex Kritikos
- Michael Koster
- René Föhn
- Tobias Roettcher
- York Schmidtke
- Stuart Mccafferty
- Daniel Peintner
- Doğan Fennibay
- Kai Rohrbacher
- Klaus Hartke
- Lorenzo Nobili
- Wan Lu
- Tatiana Mangels
- André Meier
- Joern Brinkmann
- Alexander Schmidt
- Matthias Meier
- Torsten Welfonder
- Stefan Dietrich

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege

----

### Welcome

Cris: Welcome Everyone! we are at Meetup 30! All slide are public
Cris: you can find us in different places on the web

### Meetup Presentation

Cris: Doğan Fennibay is a Principal Key Expert at Siemens, specializing in automation and system architecture. With deep expertise in industrial and building automation, Doğan focuses on advancing the transformation of automation systems into the IoT era through the open nature of the web.

Dogan: I will talk about how we brought WoT and BACnet together.

Dogan: This is a typical setup of a large scale building.

Dogan: More IoT integration without just BACnet. So we need a web-like thinking.

Dogan: So we can extend BACnet based systems and get 100% coverage and openness. We are going for an IoT hourglass from automation pyramid.

Dogan: (introduces BACnet)

Dogan: The market share is impressive. in north america, it is even 95%.

Dogan: There are alternatives of course but we have to agree that it will not go away.

Dogan: (introduces WoT)

Dogan: It is not specific to building, so we have to extend.

Dogan: There are alternatives to WoT.

Dogan: Let's see Use Cases. We have cases where we have devices that can be represented in TM. Or other cases where a controller is programmed and can only use TD as we don't know in advance.

Dogan: We start in iot domain. Then, you need to add the specific stuff for buildings. There, we have many standards like Brick, REC, haystack, 223P, KNX.

Dogan: We will focus on the IOT layer.

Dogan: (Shows the history)

Dogan: We started in 2022 and used in a product in 2023 already.

Dogan: We had the following mindset. less is more, not modeling everything. Some features are not used by customers for example.

Dogan: We have reused the URI scheme for example. We have changed some small things like the centiseconds are not used but we use ISO datetime.

Dogan: (slide 13. shows comparison how a BACnet object is mapped to a TD property)

Dogan: You can also map a bacnet property into a td property too. The URI scheme allows that.

Dogan: Now I will show the spec at <https://w3c.github.io/wot-binding-templates/bindings/protocols/bacnet/>

Dogan: (shows an example)

Dogan: We have some complicated cases in buildings. For example, you can change the temperature with a higher priority. But the lower priority schedule can take place later but higher priority stuff like equipment protection against humidity is more important.

Dogan: Also, BACnet has extensive data modeling. We mapped them to the JSON Schema but typically it is not enough. You need to specify the bacnet type.

Dogan: Also events are more complex. We needed to add some affordances for example.

Dogan: We are planning new stuff as well. For example the registry, adapting to requirements.

### Q&A

Ben: Thank you for the presentation. Desigo seems to use TDs to onboard. You mentioned the narrow waist, which part do you see as the narrow part? What is the Consumer?

Dogan: For me the interaction pattern is that. Also the data schema, security etc. The Consumer can be different stuff.

Ben: So you would write

Piotr: How do you write bacnet TDs?

Dogan: Tooling we have can generate as it knows the capabilities. For static devices, you can use LLM.

Piotr: How about getting an API description from the device?

Dogan: You can use discovery feature of bacnet. You do this online though. You can get some CSV like formats out.

Ege: The tools are typically desktop tools btw. They can spit out TDs.

Cris: BACnet is complex but popular too. Do you think that WoT narrow waist is too narrow? We see that you use additional actions for events or URI variables.

Dogan: I am fine with URI variables. Timeseries is a more urgent topic. Point attributes as well are needed.

Cris: what is your gut feeling for timeseries? Like a new operation like readhistory?

Dogan: Yes that would make sense.

Cris: Could you repeat the point attribute feature?

Dogan: An object can have many properties. Some are not used that often, like override key. Sometimes you want to use it and for that we model as another affordance.

Ben: Can the URI scheme support other transports like serial?

Dogan: Yes. It is even more complex as you can mix serial and encrypted and IP etc.

Dogan: Also you don't want to model that difference.

Ben: So how would you know which transport is used?

Dogan: You won't. it is by design.

Andre Meier: You can learn in some cases via network object.

Ege: So if the underlying implementation does not support it, you are left out?

Dogan: You know the network you are in.

Ege: Which

Dogan: It depends on your target market. Brick and REC has merged and they have good infrastructure and community. Haystack has the longest history and does not have RDogan infra. It has models for Air Handling Unit and that is nice. 223P can model relationships between devices.

Ege: WoT 2.0 wishes or pain points?

Dogan: TD footprint is a point to address. It can reach couple MBs and it is causing issues sometimes. For now it is ok.

Ege: Is it protocol connection stuff or data schemas?

Ege: we will address some of this in TD 2.0 but not the data schemas yet.
