# Meeting Minutes

## Info
# Meeting Minutes

## Info

:date: **Date:** 16 October 2025

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will be copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Piotr Sowiński
- Thomas Jäckle
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Tomoaki Mizushima
- Adeel
- Abiodun Busari
- Matthias Meier
- Kirill Dorofeev
- Daniel Peintner
- York Schmidtke
- Alexander Schmidt

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cris

----

## Meetup

### Welcome

Cris: Welcome everyone! We are at Meetup 30. All slides are public.
Cris: You can find us in different places on the web.

### Meetup Presentation

Ege: The project was started by Pedram and now I'm taking over. First, I want to explain why we are building a device catalog.

Ege: Adding a new device into an existing system (onboarding) involves several steps that are often delicate.

Ege: Different users on popular blogs ask how to configure and interact with new devices. All of them ask for the same thing: an easy process to connect.

Ege: Maybe it's better inside Siemens? We have evidence that the problem still exists. Integration work still impacts the final user experience.

Ege: At least in Home Assistant you have a nice UI, but you still need to understand many details. Some use other popular tools (HiveMQ and Node-RED).

Ege: In the end people just want to interact with devices (build dashboards, record live data, etc.).

Ege: This happens across many protocols and impacts the final cost of the digital product.

Ege: But why don't we manually integrate those devices? It's not easy, because device portfolios and individual features are diverse. In the end, it doesn't scale.

Ege: In the home automation space there are many platforms that use proprietary device modelling.

Ege: WoT can help here. Instead of manual work, you can use TD and TM.

Ege: Today we will focus on the catalog and how to manage a collection of Thing Models.

Ege: We have two kinds of Thing Models: generic (model a switch) or device-specific (model a particular device).

### Thing Model catalog

Ege: It is primarily a catalog, but also the tooling around this service. All the services are inside `wot-oss`.

Ege: Thing Models are categorized by authorship. It should be easy to find a TM relevant to you. We should also support offline deployment and make it easy to work inside CI/CD Git environments. There is support for federated deployment. Another important goal is to avoid centralizing TMs in one place.

*Shows a basic repository structure*

Ege: In the end we provide a CLI tool that you can use to manage the whole lifecycle of a TM.

Ege: We provide documentation for simple usage and use cases.

Ege: We have a web UI work in progress as well.

Ege: To work with the catalog you must add some mandatory metadata: author and manufacturer.

Ege: I prepared two demos.

*Show CLI, REST API and federated demo*

Ege: With `serve` you host the TMC as a REST API. You can use your preferred OpenAPI client to interact with the API.

Ege: You can manage two or more repositories even in different locations.

*Stop demo*

Ege: But how do you contribute to the Thing Model catalog? You can use `ediTDor`. There is also validation and verification.

*Second demo: authoring workflow*

Ege: You can test a Modbus device using a gateway in `ediTDor`.

*Stop demo*

Ege: In a previous meetup we showed how in Siemens you can onboard devices. We were using the TMC there.

Ege: Now we have a place to publish and show Thing Models. We will host a small extra event as CG. Your challenge is to create a set of TMs for your favorite devices and we will collect them in a large TMC.

*Ege shows steps*

Ege: We are going to announce it next week as well.

Ege: I will design a TM for a new Tado X Thermostat with Matter.

Ege: That was all.

## Q&A

Cris: Can you publish generic TMs?

Ege: No — only TMs connected to a particular device.

Cris: It would be cool to have some of those hosted.

Daniel: If I publish TMs for devices, what are the legal implications?

Ege: The tooling itself does not take responsibility. Some devices may not allow publication of internal details. All Siemens TMs that are out there use the Apache library.

Ege: With DPP we might see more open APIs as device manufacturers are forced to publish them by law.

Thomas: I think this might also apply to cloud APIs (that proxy devices). I worked for a company that uses LoRaWAN — that might be interesting.

Ege: Yeah, but in that case I would expect more TDs rather than TMs, or discovery tools for TDs.
