Meeting Minutes of 15 December 2022
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

## info

:date: **Date:** 15 December 2022

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Miguel Romero Karam
- Arturo Romero
- Tatiana Mangels
- Andreas Hennig
- Robert Winkler 
- Alexander Power
- Gabriel Romero
- Tatiana Mangels
- Lorenzo Gigli
- Christian Glomb
- Graziano Grespan
- Jesus Royo
- Daniel Peintner
- Felix Paulini
- Philipp Blum
- Marco Montanari
- Sandro Kock
- Christoph Netsch


:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

### :scroll: Agenda

* Welcome
* Internal Meeting Schedule
* Netzo: WoT Applications on the Serverless Edge (20 mins)
  * Questions
* Discussion on Edge Computing and WoT
* Next Meetup
* Wrap up

## :book: Minutes

### Welcome

Cristiano Aguzzi: Welcome everyone to the meetup
... we have a packed agenda today
... Make sure that you are aware of the W3C CLA

> Cristiano and Ege introduces themselves


### Internal Meeting Schedule

Cristiano Aguzzi: we have a proposal to have monthly internal meeting

> shows the github repository discussion

Cristiano Aguzzi: Please give a thumbs up or comment if it does not work

### Netzo: WoT Applications on the Serverless Edge (20 mins)

Arturo Romero: Netzo is a powerful scripting tool. No need to manage infrastructure.

... so you can execute custom business logic

... you can integrate services and handle simple or complex processes.

... you can do these scripts for WoT or other applications

Arturo Romero: Netzo uses workers.

... workers are basically handling HTTP endpoints which allow you to use other libraries and cache them

> Shows the code of a worker that has different features

Arturo Romero: you can run everything locally, you can also scan the QR code to see this running

#### WoT Applications on the Edge

> Arturo shows different use cases of Netzo with WoT

Arturo Romero: workers make more sense for client side functionality

Arturo Romero: Now we can show our first WoT demo where we aggregate the state of different data

... We run it as a schedule and persist the state in an external db

Arturo Romero: The second demo creates a dashboard and we can report to external services

... both demos are public in the marketplace

... we have a marketplace of templates and integrations with other services.

... also our marketplace allows to customize the templates for your use cases

Arturo Romero: Now we are open for questions

#### Questions

Ege Korkan: What was the reason for not going low-code?

Miguel Romero: Low code platforms did not scale well in the flexibility. It works for many use cases but not all. 

... also developers want to program

Ege Korkan: Can you explain your demo in more technical detail?

Miguel Romero: In the first demo you see that we are getting the data on the 4 things whether they are online in the last 55 minutes.

Miguel Romero: in the second one we are getting the historical data of the devices

Robert Winkler: So what do you mean that the scripts to the edge?

Miguel Romero: The scripts are deployed in 34 locations worldwide and we actually refer to the cloud edge, not necessarily the IoT edge.

Robert Winkler: How do you know where to deploy? How do you know my location?

Miguel Romero: We have a 1-2 s cold start but then the deno runtime allows to run the code

Sandro Kock: I am from Emerson. Nice to meet you.

Sandro Kock: How can I debug? How does it work in this case?

Miguel Romero: We do not have hot reload as you might be used to.

> shows the netzo user interface

Miguel Romero: you have preview and debug logs in our interface

... you can also run the code locally and soon a vs code plugin

Ege Korkan: Do you have limitation of timing when it comes to scripting api since it adds some extra computation?

Miguel Romero: we have a 50ms CPU time but that only includes processing time (e.g. synchronous data crunching), excluding asynchronous operations (e.g. fetching remote data, waiting for input/output (I/O) , etc). It should be enough for most use cases.

Miguel Romero: So we have to exclude some use cases like crypto mining

Ege Korkan: Which use cases shine for you?

Miguel Romero: Small UIs and custom tools work really well. Micro apps are what we call them.

... aggregating data is something that works really well too.

... scheduled runs as well.

Daniel Peintner: Do you provide the UI components?

Miguel Romero: not yet, it is in the roadmap. You can include other libraries via their URLs. Now you have to build it yourself now

Daniel Peintner: can we use node-wot in the consumer side?

Miguel Romero: so in this case we did with fetch. If we need more interactions node-wot would help.

### Discussion on Edge Computing and WoT

Miguel Romero: We should differentiate between IoT Edge and Cloud Edge probably.

... Cloud Edge is just bringing a change of perspective

Ege Korkan: I think that there can be an overlap if your scripts get deployed on an iot edge device. The use cases would be quite different of course

Cristiano Aguzzi: We also can have publicly available IoT sensors (via auth). In that case the definition becomes overlapping. Also 5G brings the definitions close maybe?

Miguel Romero: Also it would not make sense to develop UIs on the Thing itself.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Ege do you have some experience in edge computing?

Ege Korkan: I saw in the SPS fair that automation code can be now deployed on demand to the controllers.

Miguel Romero: I like over the air update capability in general. Generally, programming is not the difficult part but deploying and managing the code in the real device

### Next Meetup

Cristiano Aguzzi: We want to host a feedback session on the WG charter.

Cristiano Aguzzi: Also, we are looking for speakers

### Wrap up

Cristiano Aguzzi: Have a nice Christmas holiday and a good start to the year 2023

## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items

None

## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

None
