Meeting Minutes of 1 December 2022
===

###### tags: `Meetup`

:date: **Date:** 1 December 2022

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Robert Winkler
- Philipp Blume
- Rodney Rehm
- Peter Kriens
- Thomas Jaeckle
- Thomas Bergwinkl
- Christian Glomb
- Marco Stiegler
- Alexander Power
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Daniel Peintner
- Mohammadreza Navabi
- Sandro Kock
- Kotis Konstantinos
- Graziano Grespan
- Kai Kreuzer
- Alexander Schmidt
- Ivan Dimitry Ribeiro Zyrianoff
- Silvano Cirujano Cuesta
- Luca Barbato
- Fabio Paterno

[Unmodified attendance list](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20195407/205113280-58412e9e-63e3-4b4f-b8e2-2719c51204fb.png)

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Cristiano Aguzzi

### :scroll: Agenda

* Welcome
* Next Internal Meeting
* Robert Winkler: Magenta Smart Home (20 mins)
  * Questions
* Discussion on Smart Home and WoT
* Next Meetup
* Wrap up


## :book: Minutes


### Welcome
Ege: Welcome everyone, this is our online meetup 2. today we will focus on smart home and how the Web of Things can help in such domain.

Ege: If you are already part of WoT CG you already agreed on W3C CLA. If you are not, by participating and talking today you are subject to CLA. 

Ege: I am co-chair of WoT CG and working in Siemens on WoT Topics

Cristiano: Hi all, I'm a researcher and CTO of my start-up where I explore WoT topics.

#### Logistics
### Next Internal Meeting

Ege: we also have other types of meetings. One is an Internal Meeting where we talk about CG logistics and activities. We prepared a survey where you can share your availability for the next events. (INSERT LINK)
### Robert Winkler: Magenta Smart Home (20 mins)
Ege: Now we have a presentation from Robert Winkler.

Robert: Thank you for having me. Today I'm going to tell you about MagentaZuhause and its data model inspired by WoT

Robert: We are building a mobile, a TV app, and a web UI. With them, you can control your devices from different vendors. You can install it in your router or directly from the cloud. We have a smart speaker with our custom smart assistant. 

Robert: We built a cloud solution with GraphQL API.

Robert: On the cloud, we map different GraphQL calls to the proprietary protocol

Robert: On the router, we are using eclipse Smart Home and it is manually mapping with our custom Web of Things protocol. 

Robert: We developed a digital twin service that is capable of shadowing real devices

Robert: from the app, you can get access to a lot of devices. 

> Robert is showing the app live. The app contains many device models. 

Robert: Our solution has also a built-in rule engine. In the end, I'm going to present some challenges that we had with WoT

> back to the presentation

Robert: We have routines -> rules that can be triggered. Triggers can be also WoT operations. For example, if a property changes or it has a value do something. We also have no-wot triggers like the time of the day. Rules can act on WoT actions. Sometimes you need to lock or unlock things and they cannot be modified by other rules. 

Robert: Saving and restoring properties is another interesting functionality. 

Robert: you can define custom routines per device categories. We show the purpose of the devices, and what can you do with them. 

Robert: we need to de-duplicate devices in a local router. Mesh configuration might be interesting in the future. 

Robert: Every device is controlled by voice. For some devices, you need a voice label (possibly the title of the device). It is interesting to model at Thing abstraction.

> Robert showing TV and Mobile APP screenshots
> List of all the vendors integrated. More than 20

Robert: We don't adhere completely to the specification. Also, web services are Things in our solution. A thing can have a state. We follow the WoT interaction pattern (properties, events, actions). Things can have metadata. 

Robert: we introduced also the concept of the Thing Category and another high-level concept Purpose. 

> Showing a small example

Robert: support for step, might be interesting to add in WoT. 

Robert: we designed a Web protocol inspired by WoT Data model. The protocol support events too. Actions can be invoked with the same protocol. Inputs are embedded in the protocol messages. 

> Showing examples of message payloads in JSON

Robert: we need a way to group things (room or floor)

Robert: personal ownership is another important concept to model

Robert: Finally things can be managed by some 3rd party connection. 

Robert: Another challenge is Parent/child relationships between Things. For example, alarm systems and sensors or remote control. Also, devices can change their capabilities if they are connected to other things (like if a camera has an SSD card). 

Robert: we need a way to update Things

Robert: properties need timestamps about when it was changed last. 

> showing a full example of a Thing Description according to MagentaZuhause

Robert: support for tags. Tags can be set by customers for better searching. 

Robert: some devices have different update mechanisms at the property level. It might be interesting to discuss in the standardization group. 

Robert: client can decide which data he wants to read: 
- whole TD with property values
- just property values
- just metadata

> Showing a way to model linking and relations

Robert: links are good but it is hard to understand the schema of the data pointed out by them. Rel field is not enough. 

Robert: we didn't define a binding template for GraphQL, but it could be interesting. 

Robert: safe attribute tells you if it modifies properties or not. This information was interesting for clients and the rule engine. 

Robert: for properties is critical to have information about the context (is it indoor temperature or outdoor). The TD can provide more information about this. 

Robert: Another challenge is the ability to declare some actions only possible if the device is in a particular state. 

Robert: that was all

Ege: thank you


#### Questions

Ege: thank you for the ideas about how to improve the WoT standard. 

Thomas: Have you used the Thing Model for describing the capabilities? I didn't see any form. 

Robert: it could be nice to have a binding template capable of describing GraphQL queries. 

Robert: we don't use Thing Models. That's why I said that we are using a data model inspired by WoT. 

Ege: In your case you are not far from Thing Model, probably it is sufficient to just use the `@type` property. 

Philipp: Regarding the tagging or labeling, why don't use the `@type` field?

Robert: When we started we used `@type` to describe device capabilities, like a trait or interface. But we had some challenges with graphQL. We had to rename it. Furthermore, it gives you the semantic meaning, not its purpose. 

> Sharing an example

Philipp: metadata vendor information, we have the version info field. Can you use it instead of having a separate custom block? 

Robert: I have to look at it

Philipp: we have to eventually converge to some structure, similar to a user agent. 

Luca: I would avoid using a rando string to describe the vendor. I would use profiles. 

Ege: are you suggesting using Profiles to convey vendor information?

Luca: well profile can tell you the capabilities. 

Cirujano: Shouldn't it be possible to use "Links" to represent the mentioned parent/child relationships?

Robert: Already answered but it is more a technical feature of GraphQL. 

Ege: for the next charter we are evaluating the Connection object (information about how to connect with devices.) For you, this connection object contains protocol information?

Robert: no it doesn't. Just basic information on how to use that device. 

Ege: Actions that modify properties are interesting, does your solution explain the relation in depth?

Robert: it would be nice to know which property action is modifying. 

Robert: there was some confusion about read-only. An action can modify it. The spec lacks a way to describe this relation. 

Luca: The problem of actions and properties is interesting. There is another hole -> you can't subscribe to the completition of an action. 

Ege: This point is in the next charter. 

Cristiano: How did you model location ? as static metadata or property?

Robert: we don't have the location, but we have geofencing which is modeled as Thing. We use this fencing to act in the rule engine. 

Ege: what about a Thing that influences another Thing property? 

Robert: yes interesting. 

Cristiano: +1 

Robert: like speakers that are controlled by others. In general, how things influence each other. But we currently don't have the use case. 

Ege: would you be interested in joining the W3C WoT WG group?

Robert: I have to ask internally, but I would be interested. 

Thomas: Regarding GraphQL, we also had some experience but we evaluated it as too complex. The main benefit is that the client can customize what it receives. However, you can achieve the same with REST API and JSON payload.

Robert: The decision came from our previous experience, we are using also GraphQL federation. Devices are just a small part of the app. We are going to change devices but not the GraphQL schema. We can update the device without changing it. 

Luca: your use of GraphQL is mainly to improve the baching of requests from clients. You are not using the devices. 

Robert: Exactly, it is between the app and the backend. On the devices level, we are using eclipse smart home. MQTT and Kafka too. 

Luca: you have something in between that bridges the two worlds. 

Robert: we never query the device directly at runtime. We have shadow data. It is always asynchronous, even commands. 

Luca: now I see, why are you dealing with the problem of the actions. 

Cristiano: how many people are working on the magenta smart home?

Robert: in the amount of a hundred

Philipp: Could they also contribute to the open-source stuff?

Robert: not yet, it depends on management. 

Ege: if some device is WoT enabled in the future, what will your solution look like?

Robert: Matter standards can change a lot. Even more, if it can be used in the cloud. It can compete with WoT. 

Robert: local interaction is interesting for the future. 

### Discussion on Smart Home and WoT
> skipped 
### Next Meetup

Ege: we are going to have another meet-up two weeks from now. We are also planning some events after Xmas. If you want to present something we have Discussions in our GitHub repository, please feel free to comment. 

Ege: minutes are available in hackmd, they will be published in our repository after the call. 



    
## :ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions

None

## :exclamation: Action Items


## :envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks

A title for voice input in TM/TD

Step to indicate how granular the values should be updated(like multipleOf)

Groups of Things (in the charter proposal)

Purpose of Things

Parent Child Relationship

Upgrading Things in runtime

Timestamp and last updated value

GraphQL binding template

rel values that are actual links
