Meeting Minutes of 25 July 2022
===

###### tags: `Kickoff` `Charter Feedback`

:::spoiler Document Usage
This document is used for all minutes of the WoT CG. 
After the meeting, the contents will be copied to the GitHub with a PR.
For one week, changes can be requested and then the PR will be merged.
After the PR is merged, the content can be deleted.

Document Access:
- Everyone has read and commenting access
- Cristiano Aguzzi and Ege Korkan can edit the document
- Other people can request write access for a meeting
- The scribe of the meeting will have write access

<!-- Do not change this spoiler container when writing an instance document -->
<!-- See https://github.com/ikatyang/emoji-cheat-sheet#animals--nature for list of emojis -->
:::


:::info

:date: **Date:** 25 July 1994

:bust_in_silhouette: Participants
---
<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Daniel Peintner
- Dogan Fennibay
- Gregoria Monari 
- Junde Yhi
- Kaz Ashimura
- Luca Roffia
- Michael McCool
- Philipp Blum
- Salvatore Cataldi
- Sebastian Kaebisch
- Tomoaki Mizushima

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege Korkan

:scroll: Agenda
---
- Greetings
- Short introduction round
- Presentation of the old state of the CG
- Presentation of the new charter
- Feedbacks
- Next Work Items
:::


:book: Minutes
---

### Greetings and Logistics

 Cristiano Aguzzi: you can fill the questionnaire at https://forms.gle/FkHGF2hRwf8e49Qj6 in order to give us a feedback

 Cristiano Aguzzi: I will be back in a minute to give some time
 
 ### Introduction Round

 Cristiano Aguzzi: I am co-founder of Vaimee

 Luca Roffia: I remember the plugfest from dusseldorf airport

 Luca Roffia: I believe in the impact of WoT

 Philipp Blum: I work in my own company, I used to be in crypto organization

 ... I am interested in constrained devices, RIOT OS based

 ... we have a running implementation

 ... I came to know WoT while I was tinkering with Arduino, did not want to use custom protocols

 Michael McCool: I am co chair of WoT WG

 ... also involved in robotics and edge, other than IoT

 Sebastian Kaebisch: Here is Sebastian. I am co-chair of WoT WG with Michael

 ... I am very happy that this group is reactivated, outside of the standardization work for the community to meet

 ... looking forward for new activities here

 Dogan Fennibay: I am from Siemens, from smart infrastructure. I am interested in a non fragmented way to do IoT

 Daniel Peintner: I am from Siemens. I am active in working group. I am looking forward to see the community grow

 ... it was lacking before

 Gregorio Monari: I am from Vaimee. I am here to learn more WoT, happy to be with the beautiful people here

 Kazuyuki Ashimura: I am from W3C. Team contact for the WG and IG. I am an observer today

 Tomoaki Mizushima: I am Tomoaki Mizushima. From Internet Research Institute. I am co-editor of profile and use cases. Also co-chair of WoT Japanese CG

 ... we talked about WoT with japanese


### Draft CG Charter

Cristiano Aguzzi: the idea behind externalizing the documents, is to make it easier to maintain them

Cristiano Aguzzi: we have updated the image to reflect how to arrange the collaboration in the future

Cristiano Aguzzi: we can give feedback to the WG, like how something is difficult to implement

Cristiano Aguzzi: we will try to reach out to other CGs in the W3C

Cristiano Aguzzi: it might be easier to let others join plugfest like events

Cristiano Aguzzi: we want to support newcomers

### Feedbacks

Kazuyuki Ashimura: given this proposed diagram, we need to clarify the relationship among the three groups: WoT IG, WoT WG and WoT CG
… also my question is: do we still need the WoT IG if the WoT CG can handle most of the IG work

Michael McCool: we can let the CG work and decide later to revise IG
… and see how a venue fits or not

Sebastian Kaebisch: we should leave IG mainly for collaboration between the IG and other SDOs

Philipp Blum: I like McCool's suggestion. we should resolve conflicts

Cristiano Aguzzi: we can be the first contact for other SDOs and then direct them to IG
… we do not compete with WoT IG or WG
… outreach is a horizontal activity

Kazuyuki Ashimura: once cg clarifies the scope, we should talk with CG contact and project team contact from W3C
… w3c management as well
… ig and wg activity is defined by the process document, CG is not
… so we need to talk with this proposal with the W3C Team as well

Ege Korkan: we have it as a next work item

Cristiano Aguzzi: we also want to organize some meeting in TPAC as well

Kazuyuki Ashimura: in that case, maybe you're a bit late. there was a specific procedure for Chairs (including CG Chairs) to ask the Event Team to allocate a meeting during TPAC

Cristiano Aguzzi: we want to organize monthly events after TPAC
… and publish polished versions of the minutes for others to digest

Ege Korkan: CG work restarts after TPAC

Cristiano Aguzzi: you can open issues and send emails

Philipp Blum: I would like to present something in regards of a chat solution etc. next meeting

Cristiano Aguzzi: I propose to adjourn the call. Thank you all for attending!

Ege Korkan: Thank you all, see you in the next meeting

:ballot_box_with_check: Resolutions
---


:exclamation: Action Items
---

- Contact TPAC Team for getting a slot in TPAC

:envelope_with_arrow: Feedbacks
---
